

--- PAGE 1 ---
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES 
 
        
       ) 
Joint Petition of Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant ) 
and NSTAR Electric Company d/b/a Eversource ) 
Energy Pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 3 for Individual ) D.P.U. 24-135   
and Comprehensive Exemptions from the   ) 
Zoning By-law of the Town of Hingham and  ) 
the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Weymouth ) 
       ) 
 
JOINT PETITION OF HINGHAM MUNICIPAL LIGHTING PLANT  
AND NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY d/b/a EVERSOURCE ENERGY  
PURSUANT TO G.L. c. 40A, § 3  
FOR INDIVIDUAL AND COMPREHENSIVE EXEMPTIONS FROM  
THE ZONING ENACTMENTS OF THE TOWNS OF HINGHAM AND WEYMOUTH 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Now comes Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant (“HMLP”) , a municipally owned electric 
utility, and NSTAR Electric Company d/b/a Eversourc e Energy (“Eversource”) (together, the 
“Petitioners”), and hereby jointly request that, pu rsuant to the provisions of G.L. c. 40A, § 3, the 
Department of Public Utilities (the “Department”) grant: (1) individual and comprehensive zoning 
exemptions from the operation of the Town of Hingham Zoning By-law (the “Hingham  Zoning By-
law”) 1 in connection with the construction by HMLP of a new substation (“Hobart II Substation”) 
at an area within the existing Hingham Transfer Sta tion at 0 Old Hobart Street (“Hobart II 
Substation Site”); and (2) individual and comprehensive zoning exemptions from the operation of 
 
1 Consistent with the Department’s Checklist for Fil ing of Zoning Exemption Petitions, which is attache d 
hereto as Exhibit H, attested copies of the Hingham  Zoning By-law and the Town of Hingham Zoning Map 
(the “Hingham Zoning Map”) are provided as Exhibit A.   

--- PAGE 2 ---
-2- 
Zoning Chapter 120 , Town of Weymouth General Code , (the “Weymouth  Zoning Ordinance”) 2 in 
connection with the construction by Eversource of a  new tap station (“Tap Station”) within an 
Eversource-owned transmission corridor at 0 Broad Street (“Tap Station Site”).3   
The proposed project comprises: (1) a 3.2-mile unde rground 115 kV transmission line in 
the Towns of Weymouth and Hingham; (2) a new enclos ed substation at the transfer station site 
(0 Old Hobart Street, Parcel number 106-0-4) in Hin gham; and (3) a new tap station on an 
Eversource-owned transmission corridor (0 Broad Street, Parcel number 20-220-1) in Weymouth 
that would be owned and operated by Eversource.  (T he New Line, Hobart II Substation and Tap 
Station are collectively referred to as the “Project”). 
HMLP has the important responsibility of maintainin g transmission and distribution 
services and providing a reliable source of energy to its approximately 10,500 customers. In order 
to maintain a reliable power supply to the Town of Hingham, HMLP is proposing the Hingham 
Electrical Infrastructure Reliability Project (HEIR P), which involves construction of a new 
underground 115 kV transmission line from a new tap station in Weymouth to a new substation at 
the Hingham transfer station.  Moreover, although n ot needed to address capacity needs in the 
near-term and not the basis for establishing need i n this proceeding, the proposed Project offers 
the distinct benefit of addressing peak load growth associated with the electrification necessary to 
meet the Town of Hingham’s and the Commonwealth’s climate goals. 
 
2 Consistent with the Department’s Checklist for Fil ing of Zoning Exemption Petitions, which is attache d 
hereto as Exhibit H, attested copies of the Weymout h Zoning Ordinance including the Zoning Map of the 
Town of Weymouth (the “Weymouth Zoning Map”) are pr ovided as Exhibit B.   
3  The provisions of G.L. c. 164, § 72 do not apply to municipal light plants such as HMLP by virtue of G.L. c. 
164, § 2, which sets out the specific sections of C hapter 164 that apply to investor-owned utilities t hat are 
also to be construed as applying to municipal light  plants.  Section 72 is not one of those identified sections. 
It should be noted that G.L. c. 164, §§ 69H - 69R a pply to municipal light plants because the definiti on of 
“electric company” in G.L. c. 164, § 69G specifical ly includes them. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
-3- 
The Hobart II Substation Site is a 9.7-acre parcel that also contains a capped landfill and is 
currently used as the Town of Hingham’s Transfer St ation.  HMLP’s existing Hobart Substation 
is located on a separate parcel located at the nort hwest corner of the transfer station property.  
Hobart Substation is bordered on the west, south and east by the transfer station lot and to the north 
by the Old Hobart Street right-of-way (“ROW”).  The  Transfer Station parcel is bordered by 
Brewer Reservation to the east, the capped landfill  to the south, Bouve Pond Conservation Area 
and a residence to the west and an undeveloped lot to the north. The proposed substation will be 
located on an approximately 24,000 sf area at the northeastern corner of the transfer station parcel.  
Underground stormwater management best management practices (“BMPs”) are proposed within 
adjacent driveways, for a total impact area associa ted with the Hobart II Substation of 
approximately 31,000 sf. 
According to the Town of Hingham Zoning Map (2015), the proposed Hobart II Substation 
Site is located within the Official and Open Space District and the Personal Wireless Services 
Overlay District. 
The Tap Station Site is located at 0 Broad Street i n the Residence District R-1 per the 
Weymouth Zoning Map.  The Tap Station Site is not w ithin the Watershed Protection, 
Groundwater Protection, or Floodplain districts. 
The Tap Station Site is an approximately 11.6-acre Eversource-owned transmission 
corridor that currently operates as an active elect ric utility ROW, consisting of electric 
transmission lines and gravel access roads.  The pr oposed location of the Tap Station is adjacent 
to the eastern edge of the existing lines within the Eversource transmission corridor. 
The Project may be construed as being inconsistent with land use and several dimensional 
and other provisions of the Hingham Zoning By-law a nd Weymouth Zoning Ordinance.  At the 

--- PAGE 4 ---
-4- 
same time, the construction of the Project is neede d immediately in order for HMLP to continue 
to provide reliable service to its customers.  Thus, the Petitioners are seeking from the Department 
exemptions from the operation of the Hingham Zoning By-law and Weymouth Zoning Ordinance 
to allow for the timely construction of the Hobart II Substation and the Tap Station.  
The Petitioners also respectfully request comprehensive exemptions from the operation of 
both the Hingham Zoning By-law and Weymouth Zoning Ordinance with respect to the proposed 
facilities.  The Department has recognized that com prehensive zoning relief is appropriate in 
circumstances where, as here, numerous individual e xemptions are required, the Project is 
proposed in multiple municipalities, and the issuan ce of a comprehensive exemption could avoid 
substantial public harm by serving to prevent delay  in the construction and operation of the 
proposed use.    
As shown below, the need for the Project is immedia te and numerous exemptions are 
required.  Moreover, issuance of a comprehensive exemption here would avoid substantial public 
harm by serving to prevent a delay in the construct ion and operation of the proposed use.  
Therefore, the grant of a comprehensive zoning exem ption is warranted.  Park City Wind LLC , 
EFSB 20-01/D.P.U. 20-56/20-57, at 208-209 (2023) (“ Park City Wind ”); New England Power 
Company  d/b/a National Grid , EFSB 19-04/D.P.U. 19-77/19-78, at 126-127 (2021) (“ Beverly-
Salem ”); NSTAR Electric  Company d/b/a Eversource Energy , EFSB 17-02/D.P.U. 17-82/17-83, 
at 215 (2019) (“ Sudbury-Hudson ”); Vineyard Wind LLC , EFSB 17-05/D.P.U. 18-18/18-19, at 109-
110 (2019) (“ Vineyard Wind ”).  
Simultaneously with this Zoning Petition, HMLP is f iling: (a) a petition with the Energy 
Facilities Siting Board (the “Siting Board”) reques ting the authorization to construct and operate 
the Project pursuant to G.L. c. 164, § 69J (the “Si ting Board Petition”); and (b) motions with the 

--- PAGE 5 ---
-5- 
Department and the Siting Board in both dockets requesting that the Department refer the Zoning 
Petition to the Siting Board and that the Siting Bo ard consolidate both Petitions for review and 
decision.  See G.L. c. 25, § 4; G.L. c. 164 § 69H(2 ). 4  The Petitioners incorporate by reference 
herein the Siting Board Petition together with all attachments.  The Siting Board Petition, including 
the “Analysis to Support Petition Before the Energy Facilities Siting Board” (the “Analysis”), filed 
as of this same day, provides a detailed assessment  of the need for the Project, alternative 
approaches and sites, and supports HMLP’s conclusion that the Project, which encompasses both 
the proposed Hobart II Substation and the Tap Stati on, is needed to maintain reliable electric 
supply to the Town of Hingham, at least cost and with the least environmental impact. 
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT  
The proposed Project comprises: (1) a 3.2-mile unde rground 115 kV transmission line in 
the Towns of Weymouth and Hingham; (2) a new enclos ed substation at the transfer station site 
(0 Old Hobart Street, Parcel number 106-0-4) in Hin gham; and (3) a new tap station on an 
Eversource-owned transmission corridor (0 Broad Street, Parcel number 20-220-1) in Weymouth 
that would be owned and operated by Eversource. 
Hobart II Substation 
The new Hobart II Substation is proposed to be buil t in close proximity to the existing 
Hobart Substation.  HMLP will construct, own, and operate the Hobart II Substation.  The Hobart 
II Substation will include the following activities and addition of equipment: 
• Site clearing and grading within a defined limit of disturbance 
 
4  G.L. c. 40A, § 3, specifically references the Dep artment.  The Department refers zoning exemption petitions 
to the Siting Board for hearing and decision pursua nt to G.L. c. 25, § 4.  In accordance with G.L. c. 164, 
§ 69H, when deciding matters under a Department sta tute, the Siting Board applies Department and Sitin g 
Board standards “in a consistent manner.”  Indeed, the Siting Board and the Department issue decisions under 
G.L. c. 40A, § 3 using consistent standards of revi ew.  Accordingly, the instant zoning exemption peti tion 
includes cites to both Siting Board decisions and D epartment orders interpreting G.L. c. 40A, § 3. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
-6- 
• Construction of a retaining wall 
• Installation of stormwater management BMPs 
• Construction of a gas-insulated switchgear (“GIS”) substation within an enclosed 
structure 
• Installation of fencing 
• Installation of pad-mounted transformers 
• Space for a future transformer and switchgear 
• Space for roll-offs for use by the Town of Hingham Department of Public Works 
(“DPW”) as part of transfer station operations 
  
See Exhibit C for a copy of the USGS locus map and Exhibit D for a conceptual design plan 
showing the Hobart II Substation. 
Weymouth Tap Station 
The Tap Station is proposed to be built on an Evers ource-owned transmission corridor 
located off Broad Street in Weymouth.  Eversource w ill construct, own, and operate the Tap 
Station.  The Tap Station will include the following activities and addition of equipment: 
• Site clearing and grading within a defined limit of disturbance 
• Upgrading of the existing gravel access road to support construction equipment 
• Installation of stormwater management BMPs 
• Installation of an air-insulated switchyard (“AIS”) 
• Installation of four shielding masts at 85 feet each within the security fence line 
• Construction of an electrical control enclosure 
• Installation of security fencing 
• Spreading of crushed stone within the security fence line 
• Installation of three electric transition structure s (two for the incoming 115 kV 
transmission line and one for the new line to Hobart Substation) 
• Installation of one distribution tangent pole 
• Construction of associated parking and a new vehicular access drive 
• Installation of vegetated screening 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
-7- 
See Exhibit E for a copy of the USGS locus map and Exhibit F for a conceptual design plan 
showing the Tap Station. 
The current cost estimate for Hobart II Substation is approximately $11.6 million, and the 
estimate for the Tap Station is $38.1 million.  The  cost estimate for the overall Project, including 
the transmission line, is approximately $104.7 mill ion (-25%/+50%, 2024 dollars).  The overall 
cost estimate includes design and engineering, proc urement, supply of materials and equipment, 
construction and equipment installation, civil/site  construction, pre-commissioning and 
commissioning and start-up. 
III. COMMUNITY OUTREACH 
The Petitioners’ representatives have met on numerous occasions with municipal officials, 
residents, business owners and other stakeholders to discuss the substation and tap station sites, as 
well as the routes considered for the new transmission line, and to obtain input on these siting and 
routing options.  This process began in 2020 and, a s of the date of this filing, has included more 
than 32 meetings.  
A summary of the meetings where the Hobart II Subst ation, Tap Station and transmission 
line routing were discussed is provided in Table 1. 
TABLE 1 
5 
Stakeholder Input on Station Siting  
Date Participants Input Received 
12/14/2020  Hingham Department 
Heads 
Input on potential substation sites 
12/21/2020  Hingham 
Conservation 
Commission 
Input on potential substation sites 
 
5  Note: This table is an overview and does not prov ide details regarding all items discussed at the me etings 
listed.  In addition, this table may have omitted a dditional meetings where some of the same siting-re lated 
topics were discussed and/or conveyed to HMLP.    

--- PAGE 8 ---
-8- 
TABLE 1 5 
Stakeholder Input on Station Siting  
Date Participants Input Received 
2/17/2021 Hingham Select Board Input on potential substation sites 
2/25/2021 Hingham Outreach 
Meeting 
Input on potential substation sites from neighbors  
3/16/2021 Hingham Select Board Input on potential substation sites 
3/18/2021 Hingham Advisory 
Committee Meeting 
Input on potential substation sites 
3/23/2021 Hingham Advisory 
Committee Meeting 
Input on potential substation sites 
4/6/2021 Weymouth Mayor and 
staff 
Initial meeting to present tap station site and route 
analysis. Mayor provided suggestions. 
9/29/2021 Weymouth Mayor and 
staff 
Follow-up meeting with the Mayor to discuss tap 
station site and updated route analysis 
10/18/2021  Hingham Community 
Meeting 
Input on proposed substation site 
11/18/2021  Hingham Community 
Meeting 
Input on potential substation sites 
1/31/2022 Weymouth Mayor Follow-up meeting with the Mayor to discuss 
updated route analysis 
3/1/2022 Hingham Advisory 
Committee Meeting 
Input on proposed substation site 
4/5/2022 Weymouth Councilors 
(DiFazio, Mathews) 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station sites 
4/30/2022 Hingham Town 
Meeting 
Authorized Select Board  to transfer custody and 
control of parcel of land at the Town’s transfer 
station to HMLP for substation purposes 
5/3/2022 Weymouth 
Conservation 
Commission, Fore 
River Watershed 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station sites 

--- PAGE 9 ---
-9- 
TABLE 1 5 
Stakeholder Input on Station Siting  
Date Participants Input Received 
Association, Herring 
Warden 
6/17/2022 Weymouth Councilors Discuss proposed routes and tap station sites 
8/25/2022 Weymouth Open 
House 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station site 
8/31/2022 Weymouth Planning 
Director 
Discuss proposed tap station sites, zoning relief and 
zoning exemptions 
9/13/2022 Weymouth Open 
House 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station sites 
9/28/2022 Hingham Open House Discuss proposed routes and substation site 
10/12/2022  Community Zoom 
Meeting 
(Hingham/Weymouth) 
Discuss proposed routes and substation and tap 
station sites 
1/10/2023 Weymouth Mayor and 
staff 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station sites 
10/16/2023  Weymouth Mayor and 
staff 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station sites 
1/04/2024 Weymouth outreach – 
Union Towers I 
residents and 
management 
Information tables set up to promote Focused 
Meeting on 01/25/24 at Union Towers I to discuss 
tap station site and proposed routes 
1/05/2024 Weymouth outreach – 
Union Towers II, 
residents and 
management 
Information tables set up to promote Focused 
Meeting on 01/26/24 at Union Towers II to discuss 
tap station site and proposed routes 
1/25/2024 Weymouth outreach – 
Union Towers I, 
residents and 
management 
Focused meeting on tap station site, and discussion 
of proposed routes (engaged Cantonese interpreters) 
1/26/2024 Weymouth outreach – 
Union Towers II, 
Focused meeting on tap station site, and discussion 
of proposed routes 

--- PAGE 10 ---
-10- 
TABLE 1 5 
Stakeholder Input on Station Siting  
Date Participants Input Received 
residents and 
management 
03/11/2024  Weymouth outreach – 
Jimmy’s Diner 
Held a tabling event at popular eatery where 
Eversource engaged patrons to attend Open House 
on 03/19/24. Passed out invitations that included 
project information 
3/12/2024 Weymouth Mayor and 
staff 
Discuss proposed routes and tap station site 
4/19/2024 Weymouth – 
Crossroads Church, 
Hingham and 
Weymouth abutters 
Open House meeting focused on tap station site and 
proposed routes (engaged Spanish and Brazilian 
Portuguese interpreters) 
6/4/2024 Hingham Planning 
Board and Zoning 
Board of Appeals 
public meeting 
Informal review of substation proposal; Boards 
voted to recommend conditions for the Select Board 
to consider in connection with their transfer of the 
custody and control of the Substation parcel to 
HMLP 
 Following the submittal of this Petition, and thro ughout the permitting and construction of 
the Project, the Petitioners will continue to commu nicate with Town of Weymouth and Town of 
Hingham officials and other interested parties with regard to any concerns or issues that may arise. 
Hingham Informal Process  
On April 12, 2024, HMLP submitted design informatio n on its proposed Hobart II 
Substation to the Hingham Planning Board and Zoning  Board of Appeals as part of an informal 
review process to be undertaken by the Boards.  The  Boards subsequently held a public meeting 
on the Project on June 4, 2024. The Boards publishe d notice of the meeting in The Hingham 
Journal on May 16 and 23, 2024, and provided notice  to abutters within 300 feet of the transfer 
station property.  In addition, HMLP advised customers of the June 4, 2024 meeting (via letter and 
bill insert) and posted information regarding the meeting on the Project website.  HMLP also issued 

--- PAGE 11 ---
-11- 
a press release regarding the Project and joint Planning Board/Zoning Board of Appeals meeting, 
which was published in the Hingham Anchor on May 20 , 2024. 6    HMLP has posted a recording 
of the meeting on its HEIRP website.   
The June 4, 2024 meeting included approximately 38 attendees including Board members 
and members of the public, who were invited to make comments and ask questions.  The Boards 
reviewed the project, indicated no opposition to the proposed substation, and voted to 
recommend conditions for the Select Board to consider in connection with their transfer of the 
custody and control of the Substation parcel to HMLP.7  The Boards’ recommendations are 
provided as Exhibit G.  HMLP intends to construct the proposed substation consistent with the 
Boards’ recommended conditions.   
IV. STANDARD OF REVIEW  
 
G.L. c. 40A, § 3 provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
Land or structures used, or to be used by a public service corporation may be 
exempted in particular respects from the operation of a zoning ordinance or bylaw 
if, upon petition of the corporation, the [Departme nt]… shall, after notice given 
pursuant to section eleven and public hearing in th e town or city, determine the 
exemptions required and find that the present or pr oposed use of the land or 
structure is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare of the public.   
 
A petitioner seeking exemption from a local zoning bylaw under G.L. c. 40A, § 3 must meet three 
criteria.  First, the petitioner must qualify as a public service corporation.  See  Save the Bay, Inc. 
v. Dep’t of Pub. Utils ., 366 Mass. 667 (1975); Park City Wind at 169.  Second, the petitioner must 
 
6  As a result of a typographical error, a portion o f the Zoom meeting ID was inadvertently omitted fro m a 
HMLP mailer and the update posted on the HEIRP webs ite.  The full Zoom meeting ID was provided in all 
mailings to abutters, published in the newspapers, and posted on the Town of Hingham’s website and in a 
press release available on the HEIRP website.  
7  On April 30, 2022, Town Meeting voted to authoriz e the Select Board to transfer a portion of the tra nsfer 
station site to the custody and control of HMLP for  substation purposes, on terms and conditions accep table 
to the Select Board. This authorization is required to transfer custody and control of a parcel from one Town 
department to another. See  G.L. c. 40, § 15A. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
-12- 
establish that it requires a zoning exemption. See  Park City Wind  at 169; Sudbury-Hudson  at 193; 
Vineyard Wind at 132; NSTAR Electric Company d/b/a Eversource Energy , EFSB 14-02/D.P.U. 
14-73/14-74, at 90 (“ Eversource Walpole-Holbrook ”).  Third, the petitioner must demonstrate that 
its present or proposed use of the land or structur e is reasonably necessary for the public 
convenience or welfare.  See  Sudbury-Hudson  at 193; Vineyard Wind  at 132; Eversource Walpole-
Holbrook  at 90. 
V. HMLP AND EVERSOURCE ARE PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATI ONS  
 
In determining whether a petitioner qualifies as a “public service corporation,” the Supreme 
Judicial Court (the “SJC”) has stated:  
[A]mong the pertinent considerations are whether th e corporation is organized 
pursuant to an appropriate franchise from the State  to provide for a necessity or 
convenience to the general public which could not b e furnished through the 
ordinary channels of private business; whether the corporation is subject to the 
requisite degree of governmental control and regula tion; and the nature of the 
public benefit to be derived from the service provided.  
Save the Bay , 366 Mass. at 680. See also Park City Wind  at 170; Sudbury-Hudson  at 194; Berkshire 
Power Development, Inc ., D.P.U. 96-104, at 26-36 (1997) (“ Berkshire Power ”). 
The Department has stated that it interprets this l ist not as a test, but rather as guidance to 
ensure that the intent of G.L. c. 40A, § 3 will be realized, which includes that a present or proposed 
use of land or structure that the Department determ ines is “reasonably necessary for the 
convenience or welfare of the public,” is not forec losed due to local opposition.  See, e.g. , 
Berkshire Power  at 30; Save the Bay , 366 Mass. at 685-686; Braintree Electric Light Department , 
EFSB 07-01/D.T.E./D.P.U. 07-05, at 86 (2008) (“2008 Braintree Electric Decision ”). 
The Department has interpreted the “pertinent considerations” in its analysis as a “flexible 
set of criteria which allow the Department to respond to changes in the environment in which the 
industries it regulates operate and still provide for the public welfare.”  Berkshire Power  at 30; see 

--- PAGE 13 ---
-13- 
also Dispatch Communications of New England d/b/a Nextel Communications, Inc. , D.P.U./D.T.E. 
95-59B/95-80/95-112/96-113, at 6 (1998). 
A.  Eversource Is a Public Service Corporation 
Eversource has its principal place of business at 8 00 Boylston Street, 17th Floor, in the 
City of Boston, Massachusetts 02199. Eversource is an electric company as defined in G.L. c. 164, 
§ 1 and, therefore, is a public service corporation  authorized by the Commonwealth to transmit 
and distribute electricity.  See  Sudbury-Hudson  at 194; NSTAR Electric Company d/b/a Eversource 
Energy , EFSB 19-06/D.P.U. 19-142/19-143, at 99-100; (2022 ) (“Mid-Cape Reliability Project ”); 
Eversource Walpole-Holbrook at 91.  As an electric company and a public service  corporation in 
the Commonwealth, Eversource is entitled to seek a zoning exemption pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, 
§ 3.  Save the Bay , supra  at 680. 
B.  HMLP Is a Public Service Corporation  
HMLP is a municipal light plant with a place of bus iness at 31 Bare Cove Park Drive, 
Hingham, Massachusetts 02043.  In 1995, the SJC uph eld the Department’s decision that a 
municipal light plant is a public service corporati on for the purposes of G.L. c. 40A, § 3.  See 
Braintree Electric Light Department , D.P.U. 90-263 (1991) aff’d. Planning Board of Braintree, v. 
Department of Public Utilities , 420 Mass. 22, 26 (1995).  In that case, the SJC f ound that 
“[b]ecause they have the same duty to serve as private utilities, municipal utilities need to have the 
same tools available to perform their duty, includi ng the G.L. c. 40A, § 3 exemption.” Planning 

--- PAGE 14 ---
-14- 
Board of Braintree, supra  at 28.  Accordingly, HMLP qualifies as a public se rvice corporation 
entitled to seek a zoning exemption pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 3. 
VI. THE PROJECT IS REASONABLY NECESSARY FOR THE PUB LIC 
CONVENIENCE OR WELFARE  
 
A. Standard of Review 
In determining whether a present or proposed use is  reasonably necessary for the public 
convenience or welfare, the Department balances the  interests of the general public against the 
local interest.  See  Save the Bay, supra, at 680; see also Town of Truro v. Dep’t of Pub. Utils. , 365 
Mass. 407, 409 (1974).  Specifically, the Departmen t undertakes “a broad and balanced 
consideration of all aspects of the general public interest and welfare and not merely [an] 
examination of the local and individual interests w hich might be affected.”  New York Central 
Railroad v. Department of Public Utilities , 347 Mass. 586, 592 (1964).  When reviewing a petition 
for a zoning exemption, the Department considers the public effects of the requested exemption in 
the state as a whole and upon the territory served by the petitioner.  Id .; See  also  Save the Bay , 
supra  at 685.  
With respect to the project site chosen by a petiti oner, a petitioner is not required to 
demonstrate that its preferred site is the best possible alternative, nor must the Department consider 
and reject every possible alternative site presente d.  See Commonwealth Electric  2003, at 5.  
Rather, the availability of alternative sites or ro utes, the efforts necessary to secure them, and the  
relative advantages and disadvantages of those site s are matters of fact bearing solely upon the 
main issue of whether the preferred site is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare of 
the public.  See Martarano v. Department of Public Utilities , 401 Mass. 257, 265 (1987); New 
York Central Railroad  supra  at 591; NSTAR Carver 2008 , at 5.   

--- PAGE 15 ---
-15- 
Therefore, when making a determination as to whethe r a petitioner’s present or proposed 
use is reasonably necessary for the public convenie nce or welfare, the Department examines: 
(1) the need for, or public benefits of, the present or proposed use; (2) the present or proposed use 
and any alternatives or alternative sites identified; and (3) the environmental impacts or any other 
impacts of the present or proposed use.  The Department then balances the interests of the general 
public against the local interest and determines whether the present or proposed use of the land or 
structures is reasonably necessary for the convenie nce or welfare of the public.  See  Park City 
Wind  at 174-177; Mid-Cape Reliability Project  at 100-101; Sudbury-Hudson  at 195; Vineyard 
Win d at 136-137.  
B. Public Benefit and Need for the Project 
The Project is needed to ensure the reliability of electric service for the customers of 
HMLP, which includes all residents and businesses w ithin Hingham, serving approximately 
10,500 customer meters.  Moreover, while not needed  for capacity purposes in the near-term, the 
proposed Project offers the distinct benefit of add ressing peak load growth associated with the 
electrification necessary to meet the Town of Hingham’s and the Commonwealth’s climate goals.  
As the Town and the Commonwealth continue to pursue  greater electrification consistent with 
climate goals, the Project will ensure adequate cap acity for the transformation toward 
electrification and reduction of fossil fuels.  
HMLP is currently served by a single bulk power substation known as “Hobart Substation,” 
located at 190 Old Hobart Street in Hingham, adjace nt to the Town landfill and recycle center.  
HMLP’s current substation and distribution system i s designed to allow for loss of a single 
115/13.8 kV transformer while still retaining the c apability to serve the highest load demand of 
the Town. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
-16- 
The Hobart Substation currently is fed via two over head 115 kV transmission lines 
covering a distance of approximately 3.3 miles, whi ch are supported by both wood and metal 
structures, including 22 double-circuit towers (“DC Ts”), where the two transmission lines share 
the same single pole.  This configuration is suscep tible to contingency events that can result in 
simultaneous loss of service from both transmission  lines.  If even a single DCT pole supporting 
the two lines falls or is otherwise disabled, service to Hobart Substation would be interrupted and 
all customers within the Town of Hingham would be s ubjected to an extended outage.  An 
extended outage could also occur if one transmissio n line is out of service for maintenance and 
there is an outage event on the remaining transmission line. There currently is only one substation 
in Hingham and there are no distribution ties that HMLP can access from adjacent substations 
upon loss of transmission lines or a substation.  B ecause HMLP has no other substations to 
leverage in the event of either a N-1 or N-1-1 cont ingency, loss of service to Hobart Substation 
results in loss of service to the entire Town.  
A comprehensive discussion of need is presented in Section 2 of the Analysis, the contents 
of which are incorporated by reference herein. 
Based on the conditions described above, HMLP has c oncluded that, due to the identified 
reliability concerns, there is an existing and imme diate need to mitigate the potential for loss of 
service to the Town.  The preferred solution to address the identified need is the construction of a 
new transmission line from a new tap station from Eversource’s existing Line #478-502 located in 
Weymouth to a new substation in Hingham.     
C. Project and Site Alternatives Considered 
In addition to the proposed Project, HMLP identifie d and assessed potential alternatives 
that also could meet the identified need that is sa tisfied by the proposed Project, including 

--- PAGE 17 ---
-17- 
alternative technologies, locations and configurati ons.  HMLP analyzed a number of potential 
project alternatives from the perspective of their ability to reliably meet the identified need with a 
minimum impact on the environment and at the lowest  possible cost.  Specifically, HMLP 
considered the following alternatives: a “No-Build”  alternative; Transmission (or wires) 
alternatives; and Non-transmission alternatives (“N TAs”), including new renewable generation, 
energy efficiency (“EE”) and energy storage technol ogies, either alone or in combination with 
renewable resources.  In evaluating alternatives, H MLP considered issues relating to site 
availability, complexity, cost, feasibility, and th e time required to implement them in order to 
address the identified need in an efficient, reliab le, long-lasting, least-cost and least-
environmental-impact manner.  Alternative approache s, including HMLP’s alternative siting and 
routing analyses, are described in Sections 3 and 4  of the Analysis. As shown therein, the Project 
is the superior alternative for meeting the identif ied need in a reliable manner, at least cost and 
with the least environmental impact.  The following sections summarize the alternatives analyses 
conducted for each station site. 
Site Alternatives for Hobart II Substation 
HMLP focused its selection process on 10 municipall y-owned properties 
8 within the 
vicinity of the Hobart Substation.  None of the par cels or combination of parcels could 
accommodate the minimum one acre of area needed for  an AIS substation, so the analysis 
proceeded to identify areas that could accommodate a more compact GIS substation.  A GIS 
substation requires approximately ½ of an acre of l and. The majority of sites were less than one 
 
8  Municipally-owned properties in Hingham are advan tageous to HMLP because there is little private lan d 
available and what is available is very expensive; and, the Town can transfer custody and control of i ts 
properties to HMLP without additional cost to the r atepayers.  HMLP does not have authority to purchas e 
privately-owned properties on its own.  In order for HMLP to site facilities on privately-owned property, the 
Town first would need to purchase any such property pursuant to a Town Meeting vote for HMLP’s purposes. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
-18- 
acre, with many less than ½ of an acre.  The only a vailable site of greater than one acre of land is 
the Town transfer station site.  The DPW initially informed HMLP that it could not accommodate 
an expansion of the existing substation into the transfer station or the capped landfill area without 
negatively impacting the services that the transfer  station provides the Town.  Wetland resources 
constrained most of the other sites assessed.  Of the parcels analyzed, 0 Hobart Street / Parcel 106-
0-61, a triangular property bounded by Hobart Stree t to the north, Old Hobart Street to the south 
and west, and Sam Ryder Road (transfer station acce ss road) to the east, was the only site with 
adequate developable area for a GIS substation in proximity to the Hobart Substation.  HMLP held 
several meetings with Town officials and abutters r egarding the use of this triangularly-shaped 
site, and based on the negative feedback from these groups, HMLP reassessed the transfer station 
site with Town staff, including the DPW.  An area i n the northeast corner of the transfer station 
site was identified as it would not affect the capp ed landfill and would have minimal impacts to 
the transfer station operations.  Accordingly, the transfer station site is the preferred site for the  
Hobart II Substation.   
Site Alternatives for Weymouth Tap Station  
HMLP assessed fifteen (15) lots within and along th e Eversource ROW in Weymouth, 
extending from the Weymouth Fore River to the north  to the intersection with Route 53 to the 
south.  Sites were assessed for suitability for an AIS tap station; specifically, sites large enough to 
accommodate an AIS, which typically requires approx imately 1 to 1.5 acres of land, and those 
sites are not located near residences or other sensitive abutters, were favored.  An AIS tap station 
is generally preferable in situations where there i s adequate land and there are no immediately 
adjacent residential or sensitive abutters.   

--- PAGE 19 ---
-19- 
Of the parcels assessed, the Tap Station Site (Eversource-owned parcel 20-220-1), a 11.6-
acre site, had adequate unconstrained area for a ne w tap station within an existing Eversource-
owned transmission corridor, and was not located ne ar any residences or other sensitive abutters.  
Two smaller lots adjacent to the ROW and owned by N ational Grid were heavily constrained by 
wetland resources.  One lot was less than ¼ acre.  The larger lot (1.5 acres) was constrained by 
wetlands and a stream that restricts the entire fro ntage of the parcel from Broad Street.  
Furthermore, both of these National Grid lots directly abut residential properties.  As such, the Tap 
Station Site is the preferred site for the proposed  tap station due to its proximity to the electric 
transmission lines within the ROW, the availability of land that is unconstrained by environmental 
resource areas and its proximity to HMLP’s Hobart S ubstation, which both reduces costs by 
shortening the length of transmission lines needed for the interconnection, and reduces impacts to 
the community associated with construction in publi c ways.  Furthermore, the location on the 
ROW has no close residential or sensitive abutters and visual impacts should be minimal, 
especially with enhanced landscaping proposed around the perimeter of the tap station. 
D. Potential Environmental Impacts – Hobart II Subs tation (Hingham)  
HMLP has conducted detailed analyses of the environ mental effects of the Hobart II 
Substation, identified the relevant impacts and proposed measures to minimize impacts associated 
with the construction and operation of the substati on.  Comprehensive information regarding the 
nature of environmental impacts potentially associated with the substation project, and methods of 
avoidance and minimization of impacts are set forth below. 
Construction: Construction of the proposed Hobart I I Substation is expected to last about 
18 months and will involve clearing and grubbing, g rading, installation of a retaining wall, 
installation of structure foundations, construction of GIS within an enclosed structure, installation 

--- PAGE 20 ---
-20- 
of stormwater management treatment and infiltration  system, installation of security fencing and 
site appurtenances. 
Construction hours will be developed in accordance with local noise ordinances, allowed 
construction hours and coordination with the Town o f Hingham and the Hingham DPW.  The 
Town of Hingham limits construction hours to 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM, Monday through Friday and 
8:00 AM to 7:00 PM on Saturday and Sunday.  During construction, HMLP and the contractors 
will work to minimize impacts to the transfer station operations.     
Sound levels from typical construction equipment th at would be used during construction 
range from 60 dBA to 90 dBA at a distance of 50 feet from the construction activity.  Some work 
tasks, once started, may require continuous operati on until completion and may need to be 
performed on a limited basis outside of normal work hours, including Sundays and holidays. 
HMLP and its contractors will also comply with stat e law (G.L. c. 90, § 16A) and 
MassDEP regulations (310 CMR. 7.11(1)(b)), which li mit vehicle idling to no more than five 
minutes.  There are exceptions for vehicles being serviced, vehicles making deliveries that need to 
keep their engines running and vehicles that need to run their engines to operate accessories.  There 
may be other times when idling is permitted as long  as the idling is absolutely necessary (e.g., as 
a matter of safety).  With respect to enforcement o f the idling restrictions, it is the responsibility  
of every person on a job site to be in full complia nce with all safety and environmental rules and 
policies.  Supervisors at job sites are responsible  for enforcement of these rules on a continuous 
basis. 
HMLP and their contractors will also employ BMPs re lated to dust and air quality in and 
around the active construction zone.  Dust will be controlled at the construction sites by use of 

--- PAGE 21 ---
-21- 
appropriate methods, including covering temporary s oil stockpiles, use of water trucks with 
misters as needed and regular street sweeping. 
To minimize air emissions from equipment operation, HMLP will direct its contractors to 
retrofit any diesel-powered, non-road construction equipment rated 50 horsepower or above, with 
an engine that is not certified to United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) Tier 
4 standards and that will be used for 30 days or more over the course of the Project, with USEPA-
verified (or equivalent) emission control devices ( e.g., oxidation catalysts or other comparable 
technologies).   
HMLP will develop and maintain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (“SWPPP”) for 
the Project that will include the transmission line, Hobart II Substation and Weymouth Tap Station 
construction work.  The SWPPP will identify controls to manage construction-related storm water 
discharges from the Project during construction.  The SWPPP will include a construction personnel 
contact list, a description of the proposed work, stormwater controls and spill prevention measures, 
and inspection practices to be implemented.  The co ntractor(s) will be required to adhere to the 
SWPPP during all phases of Project construction in accordance with the general conditions 
prescribed in the USEPA National Pollutant Discharg e Elimination System (“NPDES”) 
Construction General Permit. At the Hobart II Subst ation site, erosion control measures will be 
installed at the downgradient limit of work to mini mize erosion and sedimentation from the 
construction activities.  Where work is to be performed adjacent to storm drains and catch basins, 
HMLP’s contractors will install and maintain filter  fabric barriers at catch basins to prevent 
sediment from entering the storm drain system.   
Land Use:  The Hobart II Substation site is located  at the Hingham Transfer Station. The 
transfer station site is approximately 9.7 acres and is an active transfer station and capped landfill.  

--- PAGE 22 ---
-22- 
The existing Hobart Substation is located on a separate parcel at the northwest corner of the transfer 
station.  A portion of land in the northeast corner of the transfer station site has been identified for 
the proposed Hobart II Substation.  This area is a forested embankment adjacent to the active 
transfer station operations that slopes from the existing paved area up to the bordering conservation 
area.  The transfer station consists of truck loading areas, roll-off for refuse collection, scales, and 
driveway. 
The Hobart II Substation site in Hingham is abutted by the transfer station access road and 
Hobart Street to the north, Brewer Reservation municipal conservation land to the east, the former 
Hingham landfill to the south, and the Hingham tran sfer station to the west.  HMLP’s existing 
Hobart Substation is located at the northwestern co rner of the transfer station site.  Property uses 
near the proposed Hobart II Substation are generally conservation land and transfer station/former 
landfill.  The site was chosen after an extensive assessment focused on municipal properties in the 
vicinity of the existing Hobart Substation and input from the public.   
The total area of disturbance associated with the H obart II Substation is approximately 
31,000 sf.   
Wetlands and Waterbodies:  Wetland resource areas i n the vicinity of the Hobart II 
Substation site were delineated in December 15, 202 0, and April 1, 2021.  Wetland boundaries 
were established in accordance with the provisions of the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, 
the Hingham Wetlands Regulations, and the United States Army Corps of Engineers methodology 
based on the plant community, soils, and hydrology.  
The proposed Hobart II Substation is sited outside of the 50-foot buffer zone to a wetland 
resource area located across from the transfer station access road.  Approximately 7,100 sf of work 
is proposed between the 50-foot and 100-foot Buffer  Zone of delineated Bordering Vegetated 

--- PAGE 23 ---
-23- 
Wetland (“BVW”) resource areas.  A small area (appr oximately 660 sf) of work (minor grading 
and installation of erosion control measures) is proposed within the 50-foot Buffer Zone to BVW.  
Structural stormwater management BMPs will be imple mented to treat and infiltrate stormwater 
runoff from the new impervious surfaces.  No wetlan ds will be impacted by the Hobart II 
Substation construction, and no long-term impacts t o such resources are anticipated from the 
operation of the substation.  A Notice of Intent wi ll be filed with the Hingham Conservation 
Commission requesting an Order of Conditions for this work. 
Stormwater Management: The proposed stormwater mana gement system will treat both 
the quality and the quantity of stormwater discharg e from the site.  The system includes BMPs 
such as deep-sump, hooded catch basins, proprietary stormwater treatment units, and a subsurface 
infiltration system.     
A brief description of the proposed BMPs incorporat ed into the stormwater management 
system are as follows: 
• Deep-Sump, Hooded Catch Basins:  Catch basins provi ded throughout the site collect 
stormwater runoff from the proposed parking areas a nd are connected to the project’s 
stormwater collection system.  The deep-sump and ho oded outlet provides separation 
of runoff from solids and floatable pollutants prio r to discharge and are used as a 
pretreatment device throughout the project.    
• Proprietary Treatment Devices: Structural stormwate r treatment devices, proposed as 
Stormceptor 450i, are designed to mechanically sepa rate pollutants from stormwater 
flows through centrifugal force and vortex separati on.  Units are proposed at the ends 
of both major treatment trains in the stormwater ma nagement system, prior to 
discharging into the subsurface infiltration system . Each unit has been sized in 

--- PAGE 24 ---
-24- 
accordance with guidance provided by MassDEP to ins ure proper sediment removal 
efficiencies.  
• Subsurface Infiltration System: The subsurface infi ltration system consists of pre-
fabricated chambers set in a bed of gravel.  The sy stem has been sized to infiltrate the 
required recharge volume.  Once full, the subsurface infiltration system will discharge 
through an outlet manhole. 
Visual: The Hobart II Substation’s location within the Hingham transfer station property 
is approximately 100 feet from Hobart Street.  The proposed substation will be constructed on 
approximately ½ acre of land along the northeastern corner of the transfer station site.  The Hobart 
II Substation includes: 
• New Gas Insulated Substation (enclosed, approximately 54 feet x 64 feet by 25 feet 
in height) 
• Circuit breakers 
• Bus work 
• Protection and communications equipment 
• Stormwater management system 
• Retaining wall  
• Space for a future transformer  
• Space for future switchgear 
• Space for two DPW containers 
The substation is screened from Hobart Street by land that is part of the Brewer Reservation 
conservation area.  The substation, which at 25 fee t is the tallest structure within the Hobart II 
Substation site, will be visible from within the tr ansfer station and from the Brewer Reservation.  

--- PAGE 25 ---
-25- 
The substation will be enclosed in a steel building  similar to the transfer station structures.  The 
Substation will be surrounded by an 8-foot-tall chain link fence.   
Noise:  Work at the Hobart II Substation site will take place over an approximately 12-18 
month period.  Construction activities will include  site preparation and the installation of a 
retaining wall, stormwater management system, the G IS building, new electrical equipment, 
support structures and foundations.  The site has b een chosen to minimize impacts to the nearby 
residences.  The nearest resident is located to the  west of the transfer station, approximately 400 
feet from the proposed substation site.  During construction, nearby residences may be affected by 
temporarily elevated noise levels associated with a  typical construction site.  Construction will 
comply with the Town of Hingham and MassDEP regulations related to noise.  To further mitigate 
construction noise at nearby residences, HMLP plans to: 
• Require well-maintained equipment with functioning mufflers 
• Require strict compliance with MassDEP’s Anti-Equipment Idling regulations 
• Operate stationary noise generating equipment away from nearby residences 
• Comply with municipal restrictions on construction hours when feasible 
• Work with the Town to schedule construction outside  these hours only where 
necessary. 
 
HMLP anticipates that these measures will appropria tely minimize construction-related 
noise impacts in the areas near the Hobart II Subst ation and comply with the applicable noise 
ordinances.  No increase in operational noise is anticipated.   
The primary sources of noise in the vicinity of the proposed substation include the existing 
Hobart Substation and the transfer station, which a re immediately adjacent to the Hobart II 
Substation area and closer to residences.  At this time, no transformer is proposed, so no new noise 
emission is anticipated from the site operations. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
-26- 
Traffic: The proposed Hobart II Substation will be located off public roads, and limited 
impacts to traffic are anticipated for the construc tion of the substation.  Access to the substation 
site will be through the Hingham Transfer Station a ccess. Traffic impacts associated with 
substation construction are expected to be minor and temporary in nature.  HMLP will coordinate 
construction activities with the DPW so as to minim ize impact on the transfer station operations.  
To the extent practicable, construction that will r equire work that would disrupt the traffic flow 
within the transfer station will occur outside of t he transfer station’s hours of operations, which 
are currently between the hours of 7:00 AM and 4:00 PM Thursday through Sunday. 
After construction, the substation will not generat e additional traffic.  HMLP staff will 
access the new Hobart II Substation in a similar ma nner and timing as they currently access the 
existing substation, which is on average one trip p er week unless there are outage or operational 
issues.  The substation will be an uncrewed facility.  No additional vehicular traffic is anticipated. 
Air Quality: The Hobart II Substation will not adversely affect air quality, either locally or 
long-range.  The potential for fugitive dust and fo r emissions from equipment associated with 
construction activities at the Hobart II Substation  will be mitigated as noted under the 
“Construction” subsection above. 
Electric and Magnetic Fields: Gradient Corporation performed an independent electric and 
magnetic Fields (“EMF”) assessment covering all elements of the proposed underground 115-kV 
project, including the proposed Hobart II Substation and Weymouth Tap Station.  The “Magnetic 
Field Modeling Analysis for the Hingham Electrical Infrastructure Reliability Project (HEIRP)” is 
provided as Appendix 5 in the accompanying Section 69J Petition. The proposed Hobart II 
Substation will have GIS, which will allow the cond uctors within the proposed substation to be 
placed closer together than for AIS, enhancing the rapid drop-off of Magnetic Field (“MF”) levels 

--- PAGE 27 ---
-27- 
with distance away from the equipment.  It is well- established that, for the types of electrical 
equipment present in the proposed Substation (e.g.,  aboveground buswork, future transformer, 
future switchgear), where conductors are arranged i n close proximity to each other, that EMF 
levels decrease rapidly to low levels inside the fe nce line; and the strongest fields near the 
perimeter fence are expected to be associated with the transmission and distribution lines 
entering/exiting the station ( IEEE Guide for the Design, Construction, and Operat ion of Electric 
Power Substations for Community Acceptance and Envi ronmental Compatibility , published by 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. [IEEE], 2014).  The Substation will not abut 
any residential properties (note that the closest residential property is approximately 400 feet away, 
and is in closer proximity to the existing Hobart S ubstation).  As a result, it is expected that MFs 
outside the fence lines of the new Substation will be dominated by MFs associated with the 
Project’s underground 115-kV transmission line and other transmission or distribution lines 
entering/exiting the stations rather than equipment within the fence lines. 
Areas of Critical Environmental Concern (“ACEC”) or  Outstanding Resource Waters 
(“ORW”): The Weymouth Back River ACEC includes More -Brewer Park, which is to the north 
of Hobart Street from the transfer station, and Bouve Pond and Cranberry Pond Conservation Area, 
to the west of the transfer station.  The Hobart II Substation will not impact ACEC or ORWs.   
Cultural Resources: Based on review of available re cords, no inventoried archaeological 
sites or historic properties on the Federal or State Register of Historic Places or the Massachusetts 
Historical Commission’s Inventory of the Historic a nd Archaeological Assets of the 
Commonwealth are located on, or immediately adjacent to the Hobart II Substation Site.  As there 
are sites in proximity, HMLP is coordinating with t he Massachusetts Historical Commission 
(“MHC”) to conduct field investigations on previously undeveloped portions of the substation site 

--- PAGE 28 ---
-28- 
and will continue to coordinate with MHC on the res ults of this investigation.  No impact to any 
historic or archaeological feature is anticipated i n association with Project construction or 
operation.      
Flood Zones: Based on the National Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel 82, Map Number 
25023C0082J, revised July 17, 2022, the new substat ion site is not located within a designated 
Flood Zone.  Construction and operation of the Hoba rt II Substation would not be expected to 
exacerbate local flooding as on-site stormwater man agement systems will be installed to control 
stormwater runoff from new impervious surfaces on-site.   
Protected Species and Habitats: The Massachusetts N atural Heritage and Endangered 
Species Program (“NHESP”) Atlas, 15th Edition, effe ctive August 1, 2021, MassGIS online 
mapping (data August 2021) were consulted to identify protected species and habitats.  According 
to these sources, the substation site is not locate d within designated Priority Habitats of Rare 
Species and Estimated Habitats of Rare Wildlife.  F urthermore, no certified or potential vernal 
pools are present in the site.  Therefore, the subs tation project will not require review pursuant to 
the Massachusetts Endangered Species Act.   
Hingham Informal Process – On April 12, 2024, HMLP submitted a detailed package of 
design information for its proposed Hobart II Subst ation to the Hingham Planning Board and 
Zoning Board of Appeals as part of an informal revi ew process to be undertaken by the Boards. 
This information was posted on the Town’s website, and was made available through a link on 
HMLP’s project website.  At its June 4, 2024 joint meeting, the Hingham Planning Board and 
Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the Project, accepted public comment, indicated no opposition 
to the proposal, and voted to recommend that the Se lect Board conisider a series of conditions 
regarding the proposed substation connection with t he formal transfer of the custody and control 

--- PAGE 29 ---
-29- 
of the substation parcel to HMLP.  These recommende d conditions are provided as Exhibit G.  
HMLP intends to construct the proposed substation c onsistent with the Boards’ recommended 
conditions. 
Summary: Based upon the above, the environmental impacts associated with the proposed 
Hobart II substation are minor and/or temporary in nature and will be minimized to the maximum 
extent possible. 
E. Potential Environmental Impacts – Tap Station (W eymouth)  
Eversource and HMLP have conducted detailed analyse s of the environmental impacts of 
the proposed Tap Station, identified those impacts,  and proposed measures to minimize impacts 
associated with the construction and operation of t he Tap Station.  Comprehensive information 
regarding the nature of environmental impacts poten tially associated with the Tap Station, and 
methods of avoidance and minimization of impacts are set forth below. 
Construction: Construction of the Tap Station is expected to last about 18 months and will 
involve clearing and grubbing in areas to be graded , upgrading the existing gravel access road to 
support construction equipment, excavation, earthwork and sub-grade preparation, the installation 
of AIS, construction of an electrical control enclo sure, installation of security fencing, spreading 
of crushed stone within the security fence line, in stallation of two transition structures and one 
tangent pole, installation of stormwater management  BMPs, construction of associated gravel 
parking areas and driveways, and installation of vegetated screening. 
Construction hours will be developed through coordi nation with the Town of Weymouth.  
All construction will be performed in a manner that  limits the impact to the area to the maximum 
extent practical. Sound levels from typical constru ction equipment that would be used during 
construction range from 60 dBA to 90 dBA at a distance of 50 feet from the construction activity.  

--- PAGE 30 ---
-30- 
Some work tasks, once started, may require continuo us operation until completion and may need 
to be performed on a limited basis outside of normal work hours, including Sundays and holidays. 
Throughout all the phases of construction, Eversour ce and its contractors will follow the 
procedures outlined in Eversource’s Construction & Maintenance Environmental Requirements 
Best Management Practices Manual for Massachusetts and Connecticut (April 2022) (“BMP 
Manual”).  BMPs will be implemented related to dust  and air quality in and around the active 
construction zone, including vehicle track pad at the construction site entrance, use of water trucks 
with misters as needed, and regular street sweeping. 
To minimize air emissions from equipment operation, Eversource will direct its contractors 
to retrofit any diesel-powered, non-road constructi on equipment rated 50 horsepower or above, 
with an engine that is not certified to USEPA Tier 4 standards and that will be used for 30 days or 
more over the course of the Project, with USEPA-verified (or equivalent) emission control devices 
(e.g., oxidation catalysts or other comparable tech nologies).  Eversource exclusively uses ultra-
low-sulfur diesel (“ULSD”) fuel in its own diesel-p owered construction equipment and will 
require its contractors to do the same for the Proj ect.  ULSD has a maximum sulfur content of 15 
parts per million compared to 500 parts per million  for low-sulfur diesel fuel (a 97 percent 
reduction).  Eversource and its contractors will co mply with state law (G.L. c. 90, § 16A) and 
MassDEP regulations (310 CMR 7.11 (1)(b)), which li mit vehicle idling to no more than five 
minutes except for vehicles being serviced, vehicle s making deliveries that need to keep their 
engines running, and vehicles that need to run their engines to operate accessories.   
 Land Use: The proposed Weymouth Tap Station is loc ated on an approximately 11.6-acre 
parcel of Eversource-owned property within an exist ing transmission corridor.  The landscape 
consists of various sloping topography and areas of  exposed surficial ledge.  An Eversource 

--- PAGE 31 ---
-31- 
transmission ROW, which currently includes two tran smission lines and access roads, occupies 
approximately half of the site.  The vegetation within this ROW is maintained in compliance with 
Eversource’s Transmission Vegetation Management Plan.  The remainder of the site is populated 
with a mixed hardwood forest.   
 The Tap Station Site is bordered by additional Eve rsource transmission facilities, the 
Connell Memorial Rink and Pool, residences, undevel oped land owned by National Grid and 
Broad Street.  The total area of land disturbance a ssociated with the Tap Station would be 
approximately 2.5 acres.  Nearby land uses are predominantly single-family residential, with some 
industrial and recreational uses.  A church, Crossroads Worship Center, is located southeast of the 
site, across Broad Street. 
The ROW will continue to be used for electric trans mission purposes.  Upon completion 
of construction, the site will be landscaped in a m anner appropriate to the 
surroundings/neighborhood. 
Wetlands and Waterbodies: The proposed Weymouth Tap  Station is located within an 
existing Eversource transmission corridor.  Wetland  resource areas were delineated on August 2, 
2022.  Wetland boundaries were established in accor dance with the provisions of the 
Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, the Weymouth  Wetlands Protection Ordinance (Chapter 
7, Section 301, Weymouth Code of Ordinances) and its implementing regulations, and the United 
States Army Corps of Engineers methodology based on  the plant community, soils, hydrology, 
and other contributing factors, including topograph y.  Vegetation removal is proposed within the 
outer 100-feet of the 200-foot Riverfront Area to a n unnamed waterway located to the north and 
east of the site.  The impact of the proposed veget ation removal within the 200-foot Riverfront 
Area is limited to approximately 4,000 sf.  This im pact is unavoidable to provide for a safe and 

--- PAGE 32 ---
-32- 
secure perimeter to the Tap Station facility.  In t he Riverfront Area, except where an access 
corridor is proposed, selective tree trimming and r emoval will occur to meet safety and security 
standards.  Low-growing vegetation will be retained within the Riverfront Area.  A Notice of Intent 
will be filed with the Weymouth Conservation Commission requesting an Order of Conditions for 
this work. 
 Visual: The proposed Tap Station will be located a long the central-eastern portion of the 
property.  The portion of the site where the Tap St ation is proposed is currently forested and will 
require removal of trees within the work area.  The  Tap Station will be visible from the adjacent 
Connell Memorial Rink and Pool and its access road, with the access road partially located in the 
existing Eversource transmission ROW.  The Tap Stat ion includes a structure to house electrical 
control and relay panels and AIS.  The tallest stru ctures within the Tap Station site are four (4) 
shielding masts at 85 feet each.  The Tap Station w ill be surrounded by a 10-foot-tall chain link 
fence.  Three poles are proposed on the ROW adjacent to the transmission lines for the tap.  These 
new poles will be consistent with the existing infr astructure within the ROW.  The Tap Station 
equipment is proposed to be set back approximately 550 feet from Broad Street, so visual impacts 
along Broad Street will be limited.  The closest residence to the Tap Station is approximately 405 
feet and visual impacts to this residence (and other nearby residences) are expected to be minimal 
as the Tap Station is on the opposite side of the t ransmission ROW from the residence.  As 
mentioned above, Eversource will provide landscapin g and other visual mitigation and screening 
adjacent to the Tap Station to minimize visual impa cts.  Eversource will have preliminary 
conversations with Weymouth officials, abutters and  community members regarding such 
landscaping and will evaluate input as the final landscaping plan is designed. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
-33- 
Noise: Work to construct the Tap Station will take place over an approximately 18-month 
period.  Construction activities will include site preparation, including rock removal and grading, 
and the installation of new poles, electrical equipment, support structures and foundations.  During 
this time, nearby residences may be affected by temporary elevated noise levels associated with a 
typical construction site.  Construction will comply with the MassDEP regulations related to noise.  
To further mitigate construction noise at nearby residences, Eversource plans to: 
• Require well-maintained equipment with functioning mufflers 
• Require strict compliance with MassDEP’s Anti-Equipment Idling regulations 
• Operate stationary noise generating equipment away from nearby residences 
• Comply with municipal restrictions on construction hours when feasible 
• Work with the Town to schedule construction outside these hours where necessary 
Eversource anticipates that these measures will app ropriately minimize construction-
related noise impacts in the areas near the Tap Sta tion site.  As no transformer is proposed at the 
Tap Sation, no operational noise is anticipated. 
Stormwater Management:  A stormwater management sys tem will be developed to treat 
both the quality and the quantity of stormwater dis charge from the site.  The stormwater BMPs 
will include a sediment forebay and a stormwater basin to address peak runoff from the proposed 
Tap Station. 
Air Quality: The Tap Station will not adversely aff ect air quality, either locally or long-
range.  The potential for fugitive dust and for emi ssions from equipment associated with 
construction activities at the Weymouth Tap Station  will be mitigated as noted under the 
“Construction” subsection above. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
-34- 
Electric and Magnetic Fields:  Gradient Corporation  performed an independent EMF 
assessment covering all elements of the proposed un derground 115-kV project, including the 
proposed Hobart II Substation and Weymouth Tap Stat ion.  The EMF assessment is focused on 
aboveground 60-Hertz (Hz) alternating current (AC) magnetic fields (MFs) that will be generated 
by the underground 115-kV circuit because there are  no aboveground electric fields for 
underground transmissions lines due to their shield ing by the metallic shield covering the 
conductor insulation, the duct banks, and the inter vening earth.  AIS is to be used at the new Tap 
Station. MFs will diminish rapidly with distance fr om the tap station equipment and the Tap 
Station will not abut any residential properties (note that the closest residential properties on Broad 
Street, over 400 feet away, are in closer proximity to the Project underground 115-kV transmission 
line than the Tap Station).  The Project undergroun d line would thus be expected to be a larger 
potential source of MFs at these properties than th e more distant Tap Station.  The closest 
residences on Roosevelt Road are on the other side of the Eversource ROW from the Tap Station, 
so that the Tap Station would be expected to be a negligible source of MFs at these properties.  In 
addition, engineering design diagrams indicate that the closest switchgear to the paved parking lot 
at the Connell Rink and Pool is to be located more than 50 feet from the parking lot edge, such 
that MFs from the tap station equipment will have d iminished to minimal levels.  It is well-
established that, for the types of electrical equip ment present in the proposed Tap Station (e.g., 
aboveground buswork, switchgear), where conductors are arranged in close proximity to each 
other, that EMF levels decrease rapidly to low levels inside the fence line; and the strongest fields 
near the perimeter fence will be from the transmiss ion and distribution lines entering/exiting the 
station (IEEE, 2014).  As a result, it is expected that MFs outside the fence lines of the new Tap 
Station will be dominated by MFs associated with the Project’s underground 115-kV transmission 

--- PAGE 35 ---
-35- 
line and other transmission or distribution lines entering/exiting the stations rather than equipment 
within the fence lines. 
Traffic: The proposed Tap Station is located off public roads, and traffic impacts associated 
with Tap Station construction are expected to be mi nor and temporary in nature.  Access to the 
Tap Station site will be through the existing access road off of Broad Street, onto the gravel access 
road that runs parallel to the transmission lines i n the Eversource ROW as well as through a new 
access road off of the Connell Memorial Rink and Pool driveway, which is on Eversource property. 
Eversource will coordinate construction activities with the adjacent Connell Memorial Rink and 
Pool so as to minimize impact on the facility operations.   
After construction, the Project will not generate s ignificant traffic.  The Tap Station will 
not be a manned facility and Eversource staff will access the Tap Station only as needed.   
ACECs and ORWs: There are no ACECs or ORWs in proximity to the Tap Station Site.   
Cultural Resources: Based on review of available re cords, no inventoried archaeological 
sites or historic properties on the Federal or State Register of Historic Places or the Massachusetts 
Historical Commission’s Inventory of the Historic a nd Archaeological Assets of the 
Commonwealth are located on the Tap Station Site.  As there are sites in proximity, the Petitioners 
are coordinating with the MHC to conduct field investigations on previously undeveloped portions 
of the site and will continue to coordinate with MHC on the results of this investigation.  No impact 
to any historic or archaeological feature is anticipated in association with Tap Station construction 
or operation.       
Flood Zones: Based on the National Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel 229, Map Number 
25021C0229E, revised July 17, 2012, and the National Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel 227, Map 
Number 25021C0227F, revised June 9, 2014, the Tap S tation Site is not located within a 

--- PAGE 36 ---
-36- 
designated Flood Zone.  Construction and operation of the Tap Station would not be expected to 
exacerbate local flooding as on-site stormwater man agement systems will be installed to control 
stormwater runoff from new impervious surfaces on-site.   
Protected Species and Habitats: The Massachusetts N atural Heritage and Endangered 
Species Program (“NHESP”) Atlas, 15th Edition, effe ctive August 21, 2021, MassGIS online 
mapping (data updated August 2021) were consulted.  According to these sources, the Tap Station 
site is not located within designated Priority Habi tats of Rare Species and Estimated Habitats of 
Rare Wildlife.  Furthermore, no certified or potential vernal pools are present in the site.  Therefore, 
the Tap Station project will not require review pursuant to the Massachusetts Endangered Species 
Act.   
Summary: Based upon the above, the environmental impacts associated with the proposed 
Tap Station are minor and/or temporary in nature an d will be minimized to the maximum extent 
possible. 
VII. THE PROJECT REQUIRES INDIVIDUAL ZONING EXEMPTI ONS 
 
A.  Standard of Review 
 
In determining whether an exemption from a particul ar provision of a zoning bylaw is 
“required,” the Department looks to whether the exe mption is necessary in order to allow 
construction or operation of the petitioner’s proje ct as proposed.  See  Park City Wind  at 177; 
Beverly-Salem  at 120; Sudbury-Hudson  at 196; Vineyard Wind  at 139.   
It is a petitioner’s burden to identify the individ ual zoning provisions applicable to the 
project and then to establish on the record that exemption from each of those provisions is required:  
The Company is both in a better position to identif y its needs, and has the 
responsibility to fully plead its own case . . . Th e Department fully expects that, 
henceforth, all public service corporations seeking  exemptions under c. 40A, § 3 
will identify fully and in a timely manner all exemptions that are necessary for the 

--- PAGE 37 ---
-37- 
corporation to proceed with its proposed activities , so that the Department is 
provided ample opportunity to investigate the need for the required exemptions.  
 
New York Cellular Geographic Service Area, Inc ., D.P.U. 94-44, at 18 (1995); Park City Wind  at 
177-178; Mid-Cape Reliability Project  at 102-103; Vineyard Wind  at 139; Beverly-Salem  at 120-
121. 
The Siting Board and Department favor the resolution of local issues at the local level when 
possible to reduce concern regarding any intrusion on home rule.  The Department and Siting 
Board have expressed that the most effective approa ch for doing so is for a petitioner to consult 
with local officials regarding its project before seeking zoning exemptions pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, 
§ 3.  See  Park City Wind  at 169-170; Sudbury-Hudson  at 193; Vineyard Wind  at 132; Russell 
Biomass LLC and Western Massachusetts Electric Comp any , EFSB 07-4/D.P.U. 07-35/07-36, at 
61-62 (2009) (“ Russell Biomass ”).  Thus, petitioners are encouraged to consult with local officials 
prior to seeking zoning exemptions from the Departm ent under G.L. c. 40A, § 3.  See Sudbury-
Hudso n at 193; Vineyard Wind  at 132; Russell Biomass  at 60-63.   
B.  Individual Exemptions Required for Proposed Substation- Hingham 
 
As described in more detail below, the Hobart II Su bstation requires relief from the 
Hingham Zoning By-law in several respects.  The Pro ject is needed in the near-term in order to 
provide reliable service to Hingham.  Indeed, under  current conditions, the Town of Hingham is 
at risk of experiencing an extended outage under ce rtain N-1 and N-1-1 contingencies.  Thus, 
HMLP is seeking zoning relief from the Department in order to allow for the timely, efficient and 
consistent construction of the Project.  HMLP has w orked with the Town, including submitting 
the plans for the proposed Hobart II Substation to the Hingham Planning Board and Zoning Board 
of Appeals as part of an informal review process th at included the filing of a submission package 
on April 12, 2024 and HMLP’s participation in a joi nt public meeting on June 4, 2024 where the 

--- PAGE 38 ---
-38- 
Boards reviewed the Project, accepted public commen t, indicated no opposition to the proposal 
and voted to recommend that the Select Board consid er a series of conditions with respect to the 
transfer of custody and control of the substation parcel.   HMLP intends to construct the proposed 
substation consistent with the Boards’ recommended conditions.  See Exhibit G. 
According to the Hingham Zoning Map, the Hobart II Substation site is located in an 
Official and Open Space zoning district and is in t he Personal Wireless Services Overlay zoning 
district.  Based on Section III-A – Schedule of Use s, public utility buildings and structures are 
permitted in the Official & Open Space zoning distr ict through approval of a Special Permit A1.  
For the reasons set forth below, HMLP seeks an exem ption from the requirement that it obtain a 
Special Permit A1. 
In addition to requiring a Special Permit A1, an additional special permit would be required 
with respect to parking.  Section V-A of the Hingha m Zoning By-law establishes minimum 
required off-street parking spaces.  HMLP’s propose d use is not listed.  For uses not specifically 
covered by the Zoning By-law, parking requirements shall be determined by Special Permit A3.  
The Substation is uncrewed, and vehicles are parked only intermittently.  No marked parking spots 
are depicted on the plan.  A Special Permit A3 would be needed to determine the required number 
of parking spaces.  HMLP seeks an exemption from any parking requirements per Section V-A.  
Moreover, based on HMLP’s review of the Hingham Zon ing By-law, the proposed 
substation would require variances as the Hobart II  Substation does not meet all dimensional 
requirements as set forth below. 
Front Yard Setback. Section IV-A Schedule of Dimens ional Requirements requires a 
minimum front yard setback in the Official and Open  Space Zoning District of 40 feet.  The 
proposed front yard setback is 6 feet.  HMLP would require a variance from the front yard setback 

--- PAGE 39 ---
-39- 
requirement in Section IV-A Schedule of Dimensional Requirements of the Hingham Zoning By-
law and therefore is seeking an exemption. 
Minimum Landscaping Requirements.  Section IV-B Special Requirements to Schedule of 
Dimensional Requirements for the Official and Open Space district includes requirements for a 
green or landscaped strip not less than 15 feet wid e along the entire street frontage of a lot, and a 
green yard space of not less than 20 feet in width along each side lot line and rear lot line.  As 
these landscaping requirements cannot be met by the  Project, a variance from these provisions of 
the Hingham Zoning By-law is required.  HMLP seeks an exemption from the minimum 
landscaping requirements Section IV-B Special Requi rements to Schedule of Dimensional 
Requirements for the Official and Open Space district. 
With respect to the front yard setback and minimum landscaping provisions of the by-law, 
HMLP would require variances from those requirement s.  In order to grant a variance, the 
Hingham Zoning Board of Appeals would need to find all of the following in accordance with 
G.L. c. 40A, § 10:  (a) circumstances exist relatin g to soil conditions, shape or topography of the 
particular parcel or structure that do not affect generally the zoning district in which the parcel or  
structure is located; (b) a literal enforcement of the provisions of the bylaw would involve 
substantial hardship to the applicant and there is a nexus between the special circumstance and the 
hardship; and (c) the relief requested may be grant ed without substantial detriment to the public 
good and without nullifying or substantially deroga ting from the intent or purpose of the bylaw.  
(Section I, subsection D of the Hingham Zoning By-l aw tracks this language.)  The courts have 
held that no one is entitled to a variance, and that they are to be granted sparingly.  See Damaskos 
v. Board of Appeal of Boston , 359 Mass. 55, 61 (1971).  As a result, variances can be notoriously 
difficult to obtain.  By virtue of the statutory re quirements, while the grant of a variance would 

--- PAGE 40 ---
-40- 
require detailed findings by the Zoning Board of Appeals, less would be required for a denial. See 
Gamache v. Acushnet , 14 Mass.App.Ct. 215, 220 (1982). 
In HMLP’s case, it would be difficult, if not impos sible, to demonstrate the existence of 
unique conditions relating to soil conditions, shap e or topography of the Hobart II parcel that 
generally do not affect the rest of the Official and Open Space district.  Further, it would be difficult 
to demonstrate the nexus between HMLP’s hardship and the special circumstance where, as here, 
HMLP chose the site knowing it could not meet certain setback and landscape requirements.  Even 
though HMLP can establish there is a scarcity of su itable sites in Hingham and the price of those 
sites would be prohibitive, these factors would be insufficient to satisfy the hardship requirement.  
The courts have found “financial hardship” insuffic ient to satisfy the “substantial hardship” 
requirement of G.L c. 40A, § 10. See, e.g., McNeely v. Board of Appeal of Boston , 358 Mass. 94, 
101 (1970). 
While it may be possible for HMLP to demonstrate th e third criteria ( i.e. , no substantial 
harm to public good and no derogation of the intent of the bylaw), failure to meet even one of the 
criteria would doom the grant of a variance.  See Kirkwood v Board of Appeals of Rockport , 17 
Mass.App.Ct 423, 428 (1984).  Moreover, variances a re a legally disfavored form of relief.  See, 
e.g., Cornell v. Board of Appeals of Dracut , 453 Mass. 888, 895 (2009); Planning Board of 
Nantucket v. Board of Appeals of Nantucket , 15 Mass.App.Ct 733, 738 (1983).  Finally, even if  
granted, variances are susceptible to legal challenge and the courts undertake review of variances 
on a de novo  basis, and would need to make independent findings  of fact.  See, e.g., Kirkwood, 
supra  at 426-427.  Because of the legal uncertainty in o btaining variances, and the potential for 
adverse interpretations, delay, burden and undue ex pense associated with the permitting process 

--- PAGE 41 ---
-41- 
and appeals therefrom, HMLP seeks an exemption from both the front yard setback and minimum 
landscaping requirements. 
Further, with respect to Special Permit A1 (public utility buildings and structures in the 
Official & Open Space zoning district) and Special Permit A3 (parking), HMLP notes that some 
of the standards for granting a special permit are subjective, the grant of a special permit is 
discretionary, and a special permit could contain b urdensome or restrictive conditions that could 
impede HMLP from constructing the proposed Hobart II Substation in accordance with applicable 
state and industry standards.  Moreover, the process of obtaining a permit, as well as an appeal of 
the Special Permit, if granted, could further delay  the construction and operation of the proposed 
Hobart II Substation.  Such delay would be contrary  to the public interest because timely 
construction of the Project is necessary to ensure reliable service.  Because of the legal uncertainty 
in obtaining special permits, the potential for burdensome or restrictive conditions, the possibility 
of delay, and the burden and undue expense associat ed with the permitting process and appeals 
therefrom, HMLP seeks an exemption from the special  permit requirements of the Hingham 
zoning ordinance. 
Site Plan Review Requirements: Per Section I-I of the Hingham Zoning By-law, Major site 
plan review is required for Special Permit A2 and A 3 projects, or where land disturbance or 
drainage patterns over a combined area equal to or greater than 20,000 sf OR land disturbance or 
drainage patterns over a combined area equal to or greater than 5,000 sf where slopes exceed 10%; 
or a larger common plan of development disturbing o ne acre or more in the aggregate. Section I-
I.2(a)(i)-(iii). 
Because the total land disturbance associated with the proposed Hobart II Substation will 
be 31,000 sf, HMLP would be subject to Major Site Plan Review. 

--- PAGE 42 ---
-42- 
The goals of Major Site Plan Review are: 
• To locate the project to preserve and enhance natural features on the site 
• Avoid disturbances of environmentally sensitive areas 
• Minimize adverse impacts to adjoining properties 
• Minimize alterations to natural features of the sit e and preserve and enhance scenic 
points, historic buildings and similar community as sets that add value and 
attractiveness to the Town. to Site and building de sign to minimize disturbance to 
topography to preserve drainage patterns on site. 
The performance standards include: 
• Minimize disturbance to natural topography and preserve drainage patterns 
• Place facilities to not detract from scenic qualiti es of site and blend with natural 
landscape 
• The scale of buildings should minimize departure from scale and character of buildings 
in vicinity 
• Preserve existing vegetation and trees, adopt mitigation plan for trees and any clearing 
to be replaced with native vegetation 
• Limit clearing with development envelope 
• Finished grade to 3:1 slope and match existing contours to greatest extent possible 
• Adopt stormwater management controls per MA law 
• Utilities must be adequate 
• Proposed development must be designed with a foreca st for next 7 years to address 
minimization of hazards to public health due to tra ffic, provide access for emergency 
vehicles, pedestrians and other vehicles, driveways  to be designed meet standards in 
zoning code, assure safe circulation within the sit e, provide for acceptable site 
distances. 
• Lighting plans must avoid interfering with enjoymen t of property, avoid lighting 
trespass and must shield adjoining properties 
The Planning Board will grant approval if it finds: 
• The proposed project will not adversely affect the health, safety and welfare of current 
or future occupants, neighboring properties or users of adjoining streets and the Town 
generally. 
• The project meets all design and performance standa rds, or if impractical to meet one 
or more of such standards, a waiver will not adversely impact the foregoing interests. 
Site Plan Review is a lengthy, iterative process an d because substations are required to 
comply with numerous regulations such as the Nation al Electric Safety Code (“NESC”), 

--- PAGE 43 ---
-43- 
complying with several of the design and performanc e standards identified above would be 
difficult, if not impossible, where those standards  conflict with NESC requirements.  It would be 
difficult to preserve and enhance natural features of the Hobart II Substation footprint, given the 
necessity of installing a retaining wall, which would also make it difficult to blend into surrounding 
natural landscape and to replace removed trees and shrubs, especially in light of the surrounding 
ongoing transfer station activities.  Many provisio ns of Site Plan Review are simply inapplicable 
here, where pedestrians will not have access to the  substation, members of the public will not be 
visiting the substation, there are no parking needs  and the substation will not generate traffic.  
Further, the Hingham Planning Board and Zoning Boar d of Appeals reviewed the Substation as 
part of an informal process and voted to recommend conditions for the Select Board to consider in 
connection with their transfer of the custody and control of the Substation parcel to HMLP as noted 
below. 
Both the Hingham Planning Board and Zoning Board of  Appeals reviewed the Hobart II 
Substation design through an informal review process.  On June 4, 2024, the Boards reviewed the 
Project, accepted public comment, indicated no oppo sition to the proposed substation, and voted 
to recommend conditions for the Select Board to con sider in connection with their transfer of the 
custody and control of the Substation parcel to HML P.  The Boards’ recommendations are 
provided as Exhibit G.  HMLP intends to comply with the Boards’ recommended conditions. 

--- PAGE 44 ---
-44- 
TABLE 2  
Zoning Relief Requested from Hingham Zoning By -law  
Zoning Provision  Criteria  Proposed  Relief Required 
Section III-A Schedule of 
Use 
Public utility uses are only 
permitted pursuant to 
criteria for Special Permit 
A1 . 
Public Utility Use requires 
Special Permit A1. 
Zoning exemption will 
be required in lieu of 
Special Permit A1. 
Section I -I Site Plan Review Major Site Plan Review 
required for land 
disturbance greater than 
20,000 sf . 
Approximately 31,000 sf 
of disturbance requires 
Major Site Plan Review. 
Zoning exemption will 
be required 
 in lieu of 
Major Site Plan Review. 
Section IV-A Schedule of 
Dimensional Requirements 
Minimum Front Yard 
Setback is 40 feet. 
Proposed Front Yard 
Setback is 6 feet 
Variance from 40-foot 
setback requirement; 
zoning exemption will 
be required .  
Section IV-B Special 
Requirements to Schedule 
of Dimensional 
Requirements for the 
Official and Open Space 
District 
A minimum of 15% of the 
area of each lot shall not 
be built upon, paved or 
parked upon, and shall be 
maintained either in its 
natural state or 
landscaped. Along the 
entire street frontage of 
each lot a green or 
landscaped strip not less 
than 15' wide shall be 
maintained in its natural 
state or landscaped with 
grass, trees and shrubs, not 
paved except for 
driveways, not parked 
upon and not built upon 
except for signs. The 
required 15% may include 
the 15' green strip.   
The project abuts Old 
Hobart Road.  The building 
and retaining wall extend 
to within 6 feet of the Old 
Hobart Road right of way.  
The proposed project 
would need a variance 
from the requirement of 
15’ wide green or 
landscaped strip along 
the frontage; zoning 
exemption will be 
required. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
-45- 
TABLE 2  
Zoning Relief Requested from Hingham Zoning By -law  
Zoning Provision  Criteria  Proposed  Relief Required 
Section IV-B Special 
Requirements to Schedule 
of Dimensional 
Requirements for the 
Official and Open Space 
district 
A green yard space not 
less than twenty (20) feet 
wide shall be maintained 
open and green with grass, 
bushes, flowers or trees or 
any combination of them, 
along the entire length of 
each side lot line or rear 
lot line of such a lot and 
(except for entrance and 
exit driveways) along the 
entire street frontage of 
such lot, and such yard 
space shall not be built on 
nor paved nor used for 
automobile parking. Not 
less than 80% of the land 
area of such a lot shall 
remain open and unbuilt 
on, but such open space 
may be used for 
automobile off-street 
parking, driveways, 
sidewalks and store 
service yards, except that 
such use shall not be 
permitted in any part of 
the 20' wide green 
perimeter strip above 
specified. Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, a green 
yard space not less than 
fifty (50) feet wide shall 
be maintained open and 
green with grass, bushes, 
flowers, trees, or in an 
undisturbed natural 
condition, or any 
combination of the 
foregoing, along the entire 
length of each side lot line 
and rear lot line of such lot 
where such side lot line or 
rear lot line abuts a 
Residence A or Residence 
B or Residence C District.  
A green planted yard space 
is not proposed.  
Variance from 20-foot 
green yard requirement; 
zoning exemption will 
be required. 
 
Section V-A. Off-Street 
Parking Requirements 
For uses not specifically 
covered by the Zoning By-
law, parking requirements 
shall be determined by 
Special Permit A3.  
No parking spaces are 
proposed. 
Zoning exemption will 
be required in lieu of 
Special Permit A3. 

--- PAGE 46 ---
-46- 
 
C.  Individual Exemptions Required for Proposed Tap Station - Weymouth 
 
As described in more detail below, in order to cons truct and operate the proposed Tap 
Station, relief from the Weymouth Zoning Ordinance is required in several respects.  The Tap 
Station is needed in the near-term in order for HML P to provide reliable service to customers in 
Hingham.  Further, the Tap Station is needed to ens ure adequate capacity for future uses as 
Hingham pursues increased electrification to address climate change.   
Eversource and HMLP met with the Weymouth Planning Director on August 31, 2022 to 
discuss Eversource’s plan to seek individual and co mprehensive zoning exemptions for the 
construction and operation of the Tap Station.  After consultation with the Weymouth Inspector of 
Buildings, the Weymouth Planning Director supported Eversource’s plan to seek exemptions from 
the Department in lieu of seeking local zoning reli ef.  Thus, Eversource is seeking exemptions 
from the Department in order to allow for the timel y, efficient, and consistent construction of the 
Project.   
Based on Eversource’s review of the Weymouth Zoning Ordinance, the Tap Station would 
require municipal zoning relief as set forth below. 
Uses.  According to the Weymouth Zoning Map, the Pr oject Site is located in Resident 
District R-1.  Per Article IV, § 120-11 of the Town of Weymouth’s Zoning Ordinance, no building 
or premises shall be erected, altered or used for a ny purpose in the Resident District R-1 except 
detached one family dwellings and municipal uses. 
Thus, the Tap Station is a prohibited use in the Re sident District R-1.  Article IV, § 120-
12.1 and 13 list uses allowed by Special Permit fro m the Planning Board and Zoning Board of 

--- PAGE 47 ---
-47- 
Appeals, respectively.  Public utility use is not a  use permitted by Special Permit within the R-1 
District.   
Significantly, Weymouth’s Zoning Ordinance does not  authorize the Board of Appeals to 
grant use variances.  Per Section 120-119A.(3), “[n]o variance may authorize a use or activity not 
otherwise permitted in the district in which the la nd or structure is located.”  Because there is no 
avenue to seek local zoning relief for the proposed  use, an exemption from the use prohibition is 
per se required for the Tap Station and Eversource seeks exemptions from Article IV, § 120-11, 
§ 120-12.1 and 13, § 120-119A.(3) of the Weymouth Zoning Ordinance. 
Height.  Article XV and Table 1: Schedule of Distri ct Regulations provides a maximum 
height of 35 feet, or 2½ stories, whichever is lesser, in the R1 District.  All proposed structures are 
below 35 feet with the exception of four shielding masts that will be approximately 85 feet in 
height.  To authorize the height of the masts local ly, Eversource would need to seek variances 
from the maximum height limitation.   
To grant a variance from the height limitation for the shielding masts, the Weymouth 
Zoning Board of Appeals would need to find the following in accordance with G.L. c. 40A, § 10:  
(a) circumstances exist relating to soil conditions , shape or topography of the particular parcel or 
structure that do not affect generally the zoning district in which the parcel or structure is located; 
(b) a literal enforcement of the provisions of the bylaw would involve substantial hardship to the 
applicant and there is a nexus between the special circumstance and the hardship; and (c) the relief 
requested may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without nullifying 
or substantially derogating from the intent or purpose of the bylaw.  It is difficult, if not impossible, 
to demonstrate the existence of unique conditions relating to soil conditions, shape or topography 
of a particular parcel of land or structure.  Moreo ver, variances are a legally disfavored form of 

--- PAGE 48 ---
-48- 
relief and, even if granted, are susceptible to cha llenge. 9  Because of the legal uncertainty in 
obtaining variances, and the potential for adverse interpretations, delay, burden and undue expense 
associated with the permitting process and appeals therefrom, Eversource seeks an exemption from 
the maximum height limitation in Article XV and Table 1: Schedule of District Regulations of the 
Weymouth Zoning Ordinance.  
Parking.  Section 120-74 of the Weymouth Zoning Ord inance establishes minimum 
required off-street parking spaces.  As the propose d use is not listed, the use would fall under 
Section 120-74R, which provides that reasonable off-street parking requirements for buildings and 
uses for which the minimum required parking is not provided shall be determined in each case by 
the Inspector of Buildings.  Thus, it is within the  Building Inspector’s discretion to determine the 
number of parking spaces required for the Tap Station.  The Tap Station is uncrewed, and parking 
of Company vehicles will only be needed for periodi c inspections.  While no individual parking 
spots are depicted on the plan for the Tap Station, the Tap Station Site is designed to accommodate 
parking for up to six (6) vehicles.  A variance wou ld be required from Section 120-74 to ensure 
that minimum required parking requirements are not imposed by the Inspector of Buildings for the 
Tap Station, where space for six vehicles is alread y proposed.  As noted above, it is difficult to 
meet the requirements for a variance, and the grant  of variances is susceptible to challenge.  
Because of the legal uncertainty in obtaining varia nces, and the potential for adverse 
interpretations, delay, burden and undue expense as sociated with the permitting process and 
appeals therefrom, Eversource seeks an exemption fr om any parking requirements that could be 
imposed by the Building Inspector per Section 120-74.  
 
9 As discussed in Section IV.B., supra , pp. 39-41, variances are a disfavored form of rel ief.  

--- PAGE 49 ---
-49- 
Signs.  Section 120-64.1 of the Weymouth Zoning Ord inance regulates signs and 
prescribes the types, number and size of signs in t he R1 zoning district.  Eversource proposes the 
following three types of signs on the Tap Station perimeter fence: 
• No Trespassing Signs (approximate size: 12” x 9”) 
• Contact Information Signs (approximate size: 14” x 10”) 
• Danger Signs (approximate size: 14” x 10”) 
 
These types of signs are not explicitly allowed in the Resident District R1 and, accordingly, 
variances would be needed to authorize them to be placed on the perimeter fence.  Because of the 
legal uncertainty in obtaining variances, and the potential for adverse interpretations, delay, burden 
and undue expense associated with the permitting process and appeals therefrom, Eversource seeks 
an exemption from Section 120-64.1. 
Earth Removal.  Section 120-80 of the Weymouth Zoni ng Ordinance requires a permit 
from the Board of Zoning Appeals for removal of ear th materials.  Furthermore, the removal of 
earth materials is subject to restrictive covenants  of the Board.  The Inspector of Buildings is 
authorized to issue a permit for the removal from the site of earth and may require a suitable bond, 
if deemed necessary, where the amount of material to be removed is necessarily incidental to or in 
connection with the construction, alteration, excavation or grading for a building or road or other 
facility being built in accordance with a permit is sued or in accordance with an approved plan, 
provided that there is reasonable assurance that th e construction will be completed.  As earth 
material will be removed during construction, Eversource seeks an exemption from any permit or 
bond the Building Inspector or the Board of Zoning Appeals may impose for removal of earth 
materials even if incidental to construction. 
Site Plan Review. Articles XXIVA and XXVA of the We ymouth Zoning Ordinance 
provide that the Weymouth Inspector of Buildings shall not issue a building permit until and unless 

--- PAGE 50 ---
-50- 
the Weymouth Director of Planning and Community Dev elopment issues a decision of review 
consisting of all findings and pertaining to review  of the site plan.  Thereafter, the Weymouth 
Planning Board has the authority to approve the sit e plan.  Site plan review criteria include: 
(1) protection of adjoining premises and the general neighborhood from any substantially adverse 
impacts created by the proposed development; (2) co nvenience and safety of vehicular and 
pedestrian movement within the site and in relation to adjacent streets, properties or improvements; 
(3) adequacy of the methods of providing for munici pal facilities and essential services in 
connection with the development; and (4) provisions  for off-street loading and unloading of 
vehicles incidental to the servicing of the develop ment.  The Weymouth Zoning Ordinance does 
not provide any guidance for the application of the se criteria to the site plan. Moreover, the 
Company must have the discretion to design the Tap Station and station layout in a manner that is 
consistent with established utility standards in order to ensure its reliable operation; such technical 
engineering and electrical issues are typically bey ond the general scope of local site plan review. 
Site plan approval can be conditioned and could res ult in burdensome or restrictive conditions 
being placed on the construction of the Tap Station .  Notably, the Weymouth Zoning Ordinance 
does not explicitly require site plan review in Res ident District R1, likely because the only as-of-
right uses are single family residences and municipal uses.  Because the Tap Station is a prohibited 
use in the zoning district, and because nothing in the Weymouth Zoning Ordinance would prohibit 
the site plan review authorities from requiring it for the Tap Station, Eversource is seeking an 
exemption from any requirement that may be imposed by the Weymouth Inspector of Buildings, 
Director of Planning and Community Development or Planning Board to obtain site plan approval 
for the Tap Station. 

--- PAGE 51 ---
-51- 
To avoid vagueness and subjectivity in the Weymouth Zoning Ordinance as applied to the 
Project and the need to seek variances and other zo ning relief, Eversource seeks the following 
exemptions in order to construct, operate and maintain the Project in Weymouth: 

--- PAGE 52 ---
-52- 
TABLE 3 
Zoning Relief Requested from Weymouth Zoning Ordina nce  
Zoning Provision Criteria  Proposed  Relief Required 
§120-11 Permitted Uses Permitted uses in the 
Resident District R1 
include only: (1) 
detached one-family 
dwellings; and (2) 
municipal uses.   
Substation Use – not 
permitted 
 
 
Use variances explicitly 
prohibited per § 120-
119A.(3). 
 
Zoning exemption will 
be per se required. 
 
Article XV and Table 1: 
Schedule of District 
Regulations 
Maximum Height: 35 
ft, 2.5 stories 
 
Four masts at 85 feet 
  
 
Variances are needed 
for four shielding masts 
proposed at 85 feet. 
 
Zoning exemptions 
required from maximum 
height requirement.  
 
§120-64.1 Signs  The types of signs that 
must be affixed to the 
Tap Station fence are 
not explicitly allowed 
in the Resident District 
R1.    
 
 
Eversource will affix the 
following three types of 
signs on the perimeter 
fence: 
  
 No Trespassing Signs 
(approximate size: 12” x 
9”)  
 
 Contact Information Signs 
(approximate size: 14” x 
10”) 
 
 Danger Signs 
(approximate size: 14” x 
10”) 
 
 
Variances are needed 
for signs placed on 
perimeter fence. 
 
Zoning exemptions 
required from any 
prohibition of required 
signage. 
§120-74 Required Minimum 
Parking Spaces 
R.  Unlisted 
requirements. 
Reasonable off-street 
parking requirements 
for buildings and uses 
not listed in this section 
shall be determined in 
each case by the 
Inspector of Buildings. 
 
This is a requirement to be 
determined by the 
Building Inspector. 
 
Plan does not show any 
parking spots, but station 
can accommodate parking 
for approximately 6 cars. 
 
Variance is needed from 
possible requirement to 
have dedicated parking 
spots/more than six 
parking spots on site. 
 
Zoning exemption 
required from any 
parking requirements 
imposed by the 
Building Inspector.  
 

--- PAGE 53 ---
-53- 
TABLE 3 
Zoning Relief Requested from Weymouth Zoning Ordina nce  
Zoning Provision Criteria  Proposed  Relief Required 
§ 120-80 Earth Removal § 120-81 Permit 
required.  
 
The removal of soil, 
loam, sand, gravel, 
quarry stone or other 
earth material from any 
parcel of land by any 
person, firm or 
corporation shall be 
allowed only under 
permit from the Board 
of Zoning Appeals and 
subject to restrictive 
covenants of the Board.  
 
The Inspector of 
Buildings  may issue 
permits for earth 
removal and may 
require a suitable bond, 
if deemed necessary, 
where the amount of 
material to be removed 
is necessarily incidental 
to or in connection with 
the construction, 
alteration, excavation or 
grading for a building or 
road or other facility 
being built in 
accordance with a 
permit issued or in 
accordance with an 
approved plan, provided 
that there is reasonable 
assurance that the 
construction will be 
completed.  
Earth material will be 
removed from site during 
construction. 
 
Zoning exemption 
required for any permit 
or bond the Building 
Inspector may impose 
for removal of earth 
materials even if 
incidental to 
construction.   
 
 

--- PAGE 54 ---
-54- 
TABLE 3 
Zoning Relief Requested from Weymouth Zoning Ordina nce  
Zoning Provision Criteria  Proposed  Relief Required 
Article XXVA 
Site Plan Review 
Site plan review criteria 
include: (1) : protection 
of adjoining premises 
and the general 
neighborhood from any 
substantially adverse 
impacts created by the 
proposed development; 
(2) convenience and 
safety of vehicular and 
pedestrian movement 
within the site and in 
relation to adjacent 
streets , properties or 
improvements; (3) 
adequacy of the 
methods of providing 
for municipal facilities 
and essential services in 
connection with the 
development; and (4) 
provisions for off-street 
loading and unloading 
of vehicles incidental to 
the servicing of the 
development.  
The Tap Station is a 
prohibited use in the 
Resident District R1.  
While site plan review 
is not explicitly required 
in the Resident District 
R1, nothing in the 
Weymouth Zoning 
Ordinance prohibits the 
imposition of site plan 
review for the Tap 
Station. Accordingly, 
because the Tap Station 
must be designed, 
constructed and 
operated according to 
utility industry 
standards, Eversource 
seeks an exemption for 
site plan review in 
Article XXVA. 
 
VIII.  THE PROJECT REQUIRES COMPREHENSIVE ZONING EXEMPTIONS  
The Petitioners also respectfully request comprehensive exemptions from the operation of 
the Hingham Zoning By-law and Weymouth Zoning Ordin ance with respect to the Project.  The 
Siting Board grants comprehensive exemptions on “a case-by-case basis where the applicant 
demonstrates that issuance of a comprehensive exemption could avoid substantial public harm by 
serving to prevent a delay in the construction and operation of the proposed use.”  See  Park City 
Wind  at 208 ; Beverly-Salem  at 126-127; Sudbury-Hudson  at 215; Vineyard Wind  at 109-110. 
In order to make a determination regarding substant ial public harm, the Department and 
the Siting Board have articulated relevant factors,  including, but not limited to, whether: (1) the 
proposed project contributes to a reliable energy supply for the Commonwealth; (2) the project is 

--- PAGE 55 ---
-55- 
time-sensitive; (3) the project involves multiple municipalities that could have conflicting zoning 
provisions that might hinder the uniform developmen t of a large project spanning these 
communities; (4) the proponent of the project has a ctively engaged the communities and 
responsible officials to discuss the applicability of local zoning provisions to the project and any 
local concerns; and (5) the affected communities do not oppose the issuance of the comprehensive 
exemption. Park City Wind  at 208; Mid Cape Reliability Project  at 109-110; Sudbury-Hudson  at 
215; Vineyard Wind  at 153. 
The grant of a comprehensive zoning exemption is necessary even where individual zoning 
exemptions are granted, as the two types of zoning exemptions serve distinct needs.  An individual 
zoning exemption relates to specific provisions in the Hingham Zoning By-law or Weymouth 
Zoning Ordinance currently in effect, that have the potential to conflict or b e inconsistent with, 
prevent, delay or obstruct the construction or oper ation of the Project.  Comprehensive zoning 
exemptions are also necessary with regard to provisions currently in effect because zoning bylaws 
and ordinances are rarely written with unique energy infrastructure facilities in mind.  The lack of 
clearly defined and specific regulation of electric infrastructure in the zoning enactments, and the 
vague and subjective terms and provisions of zoning ordinances and bylaws result in an imprecise, 
at best, application of the zoning provisions to en ergy infrastructure projects.  Both HMLP and 
Eversource have interpreted the provisions of Hingh am and Weymouth zoning enactments 
reasonably, but conservatively, to request individu al zoning exemptions for all of the provisions 
that could conceivably be said to apply to the Proj ect.  The grant of comprehensive exemptions 
would remove any reasonable doubt as to the ability  of the Project to move forward without 
violating any terms of the Hingham and Weymouth zon ing enactments.  Comprehensive zoning 
exemptions also go beyond the provisions in the cur rent Zoning By-law and Ordinance (from 

--- PAGE 56 ---
-56- 
which an individual zoning exemption may be granted ), to exempt the Project from any future 
zoning enactment that comes into effect that has the potential to jeopardize the Project (in the same 
manner described above for individual zoning exempt ions).  In this manner, the two types of 
zoning exemptions work in tandem to ensure that meritorious energy facilities like the Project are 
constructed as approved by the Department/Siting Board without undue delay.  The very purpose 
of a comprehensive zoning exemption is thus to provide a mechanism for relief from local zoning 
that would not be available if only individual zoni ng exemptions were able to be secured.  A 
comprehensive zoning exemption would also ensure th e timely construction of the Project in the 
event that a Project design change is required.   
As described herein, the Project satisfies the Department’s and the Siting Board’s standards 
for the grant of comprehensive zoning exemptions.  With respect to the first two factors, as 
described in detail above, the Project is necessary  in order to ensure system reliability, and the 
need for the Project is immediate given that HMLP’s  current system does not meet established 
transmission reliability standards.  With respect t o the third factor, the Project involves the 
construction of two stations in two municipalities – Hingham and Weymouth – and implicates 
potentially conflicting zoning provisions that migh t hinder the uniform and coordinated 
development of a complex project spanning these two communities. 
With respect to the fourth factor, as discussed in Section III above, HMLP and Eversource 
have actively engaged the two communities and the r esponsible officials in Hingham and 
Weymouth to discuss the applicability of local zoning provisions, the need for both the individual 
and comprehensive zoning exemptions and HMLP’s and Eversource’s plans to seek exemptions 
from the Department.  HMLP, both on its own and in conjunction with Eversource, has held 
multiple meetings with officials, residents and bus inesses in both Hingham and Weymouth.  

--- PAGE 57 ---
-57- 
HMLP and Eversource met with the Planning Director of Weymouth to discuss the Tap Station 
and the zoning process.  In an email dated December  14, 2022, the Planning Director stated that 
he had spoken with the Weymouth Inspector of Buildi ngs, and that “Since switching stations are 
not allowed in R-1 zones and Weymouth does not allow use variances, you will need to seek relief 
from the appropriate state board.”  HMLP also met with the Hingham Planning Board and Zoning 
Board of Appeals.  The Hingham boards and Town staf f understood that HMLP would seek a 
zoning exemption.   Moreover, community engagement in Hingham included an informal review 
of the Hobart II Substation by the Hingham Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals, in lieu 
of formal zoning and planning reviews, including a widely noticed joint public meeting held by 
those two boards on June 4, 2024.  At its June 4, 2024 public meeting, the Boards received public 
comment, expressed no opposition to the proposed substation and voted to recommend conditions 
for the Select Board to consider in connection with their transfer of the custody and control of the 
Substation parcel to HMLP.  See  Hingham Informal Process under Section III, Commun ity 
Outreach, above. 
In sum, a comprehensive zoning exemption from the operation of the Hingham Zoning By-
law and Weymouth Zoning Ordinance would ensure the timely construction of this important 
Project.   

--- PAGE 58 ---
-58- 
IX. PERMITS REQUIRED  
 
To the extent that the Department grants the Joint Petition, the Petitioners anticipates that 
the following permits would be required to construct and operate the Project:   
TABLE 4 
Anticipated Permits, Reviews and Approvals 
   
Agency   Permit, Review, or Approval   Status   
Federal     
USEPA  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System (“NPDES”) Construction General 
Permit   
To be filed  
USEPA  NPDES Dewatering and Remediation General 
Permit (“DRGP”) and Best Management 
Practices Plan (“BMPP”)  
To be filed  
State       
MassDEP Bureau of Waste 
Site Cleanup  
Utility Related Abatement Measure (“URAM”) 
under Massachusetts Contingency Plan 
(“MCP”)  
To be filed; Presumptive approval 7 
days after submission  
MassDEP Bureau of Water 
Resources  
WM15 Surface Water Discharge Notice of Intent 
for EPA NPDES CGP discharges to impaired 
waters  
Approval upon EPA issuance of CGP 
discharge authorization  
MassDEP Bureau of Water 
Resources  
WM15 Surface Water Discharge Notice of Intent 
for EPA NPDES DRGP  
Approval upon EPA issuance of 
DRGP discharge authorization  
Massachusetts Historical 
Commission (“MHC”), 
Massachusetts Board of 
Underwater Archaeological 
Resources (“MA BUAR”) 
and Tribal SHPOs (G.L. c. 9 
Sect. 26-27C as amended by 
St. 1988 Ch. 254 and Section 
106)  
Determination of No Adverse Effect  A Project Notif ication Form (“PNF”) 
was submitted on April 2024.  HMLP 
is coordinating with the MHC to 
conduct field investigations on 
previously undeveloped portions of 
land at the Tap Station and Substation 
sites and will continue to coordinate 
with MHC on the results of this 
investigation.     
Local       
Hingham Conservation 
Commission  
Wetlands Order of Conditions per the MWPA 
and Hingham Wetlands Protection Bylaw 
(Article 22)  
To be filed  
Weymouth Conservation 
Commission  
Wetlands Order of Conditions per the MWPA 
and Weymouth Wetlands Protection Ordinance 
(Section 7-300) 
To be filed  

--- PAGE 59 ---
-59- 
TABLE 4 
Anticipated Permits, Reviews and Approvals 
   
Agency   Permit, Review, or Approval   Status   
Weymouth DPW  Stormwater Management Permit  To be f iled  
Town of Hingham  Road opening permit  Contractor to  file  
Town of Weymouth  Road opening permit  Contractor t o file  
 
 
  

--- PAGE 60 ---
-60- 
X. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioners respectfully request that, pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 3, and after due notice 
and a public hearing, the Department/Siting Board determine that the construction of the proposed 
Hobart II Substation and Tap Station are reasonably necessary for the convenience and welfare of 
the public, and that regarding the respective sites in Hingham and Weymouth, the uses to be made 
of them, and the structures to be built and maintai ned thereon by HMLP and Eversource, the 
Project shall be individually and comprehensively e xempted from the operation of the Hingham 
Zoning By-law and Weymouth Zoning Ordinance to the extent applicable thereto. 
      
  

--- PAGE 61 ---
-61- 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant  
 
By its attorneys, 
 
 
 
/s/ Robert D. Shapiro 
 
Robert D. Shapiro 
Diedre T. Lawrence  
Duncan & Allen NE, LLC 
25 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 200  
Braintree, MA 02184 
617-817-9365 (Shapiro) 
617-435-2546 (Lawrence) 
rds@duncanallen.com 
dtl@duncanallen.com 
 
 
 
NSTAR Electric Company d/b/a 
EVERSOURCE ENERGY  
 
By its attorneys, 
 
 
/s/  David S. Rosenzweig 
________________________________________ 
     David S. Rosenzweig, Esq.  
Erika J. Hafner, Esq.  
Keegan Werlin LLP  
99 High Street, Suite 2900  
Boston, MA 02110  
Phone: (617) 951-1400  
drosen@keeganwerlin.com 
ehafner@keeganwerlin.com  
 
 
 
Dated:  November 13, 2024 
  

--- PAGE 62 ---
-62- 
EXHIBITS 
Exhibit A: Hingham Zoning By-law and Zoning Map  
 
Exhibit B: Weymouth Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map   
 
Exhibit C: USGS Locus Map – Hobart II (Hingham) Sub station 
 
Exhibit D: Site Plan of Hobart II Substation 
 
Exhibit E: USGS Locus Map – Tap Station 
 
Exhibit F: Site Plan of Tap Station  
 
Exhibit G: Hingham Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals Recommendations for 
Proposed Hingham Substation  
 
Exhibit H: Checklist for Zoning Exemption Petitions   
 
Exhibit I: Affidavit of No MEPA Review  
 
Exhibit J:  Draft Notice 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 63 ---
 
EXHIBIT A 

--- PAGE 64 ---


--- PAGE 65 ---


--- PAGE 66 ---


--- PAGE 67 ---


--- PAGE 68 ---


--- PAGE 69 ---


--- PAGE 70 ---


--- PAGE 71 ---


--- PAGE 72 ---


--- PAGE 73 ---


--- PAGE 74 ---


--- PAGE 75 ---


--- PAGE 76 ---


--- PAGE 77 ---


--- PAGE 78 ---


--- PAGE 79 ---


--- PAGE 80 ---


--- PAGE 81 ---


--- PAGE 82 ---


--- PAGE 83 ---


--- PAGE 84 ---


--- PAGE 85 ---


--- PAGE 86 ---


--- PAGE 87 ---


--- PAGE 88 ---


--- PAGE 89 ---


--- PAGE 90 ---


--- PAGE 91 ---


--- PAGE 92 ---


--- PAGE 93 ---


--- PAGE 94 ---


--- PAGE 95 ---


--- PAGE 96 ---


--- PAGE 97 ---


--- PAGE 98 ---


--- PAGE 99 ---


--- PAGE 100 ---


--- PAGE 101 ---


--- PAGE 102 ---


--- PAGE 103 ---


--- PAGE 104 ---


--- PAGE 105 ---


--- PAGE 106 ---


--- PAGE 107 ---


--- PAGE 108 ---


--- PAGE 109 ---


--- PAGE 110 ---


--- PAGE 111 ---


--- PAGE 112 ---


--- PAGE 113 ---


--- PAGE 114 ---


--- PAGE 115 ---


--- PAGE 116 ---


--- PAGE 117 ---


--- PAGE 118 ---


--- PAGE 119 ---


--- PAGE 120 ---


--- PAGE 121 ---


--- PAGE 122 ---


--- PAGE 123 ---


--- PAGE 124 ---


--- PAGE 125 ---


--- PAGE 126 ---


--- PAGE 127 ---


--- PAGE 128 ---


--- PAGE 129 ---


--- PAGE 130 ---


--- PAGE 131 ---


--- PAGE 132 ---


--- PAGE 133 ---


--- PAGE 134 ---


--- PAGE 135 ---


--- PAGE 136 ---


--- PAGE 137 ---


--- PAGE 138 ---


--- PAGE 139 ---


--- PAGE 140 ---


--- PAGE 141 ---


--- PAGE 142 ---


--- PAGE 143 ---


--- PAGE 144 ---


--- PAGE 145 ---


--- PAGE 146 ---


--- PAGE 147 ---


--- PAGE 148 ---


--- PAGE 149 ---


--- PAGE 150 ---


--- PAGE 151 ---


--- PAGE 152 ---


--- PAGE 153 ---


--- PAGE 154 ---


--- PAGE 155 ---


--- PAGE 156 ---


--- PAGE 157 ---


--- PAGE 158 ---


--- PAGE 159 ---


--- PAGE 160 ---


--- PAGE 161 ---


--- PAGE 162 ---


--- PAGE 163 ---


--- PAGE 164 ---


--- PAGE 165 ---


--- PAGE 166 ---


--- PAGE 167 ---


--- PAGE 168 ---


--- PAGE 169 ---


--- PAGE 170 ---


--- PAGE 171 ---


--- PAGE 172 ---


--- PAGE 173 ---


--- PAGE 174 ---


--- PAGE 175 ---


--- PAGE 176 ---


--- PAGE 177 ---


--- PAGE 178 ---


--- PAGE 179 ---


--- PAGE 180 ---


--- PAGE 181 ---


--- PAGE 182 ---


--- PAGE 183 ---


--- PAGE 184 ---


--- PAGE 185 ---


--- PAGE 186 ---


--- PAGE 187 ---


--- PAGE 188 ---


--- PAGE 189 ---


--- PAGE 190 ---


--- PAGE 191 ---


--- PAGE 192 ---


--- PAGE 193 ---


--- PAGE 194 ---


--- PAGE 195 ---


--- PAGE 196 ---


--- PAGE 197 ---


--- PAGE 198 ---


--- PAGE 199 ---


--- PAGE 200 ---


--- PAGE 201 ---


--- PAGE 202 ---


--- PAGE 203 ---


--- PAGE 204 ---


--- PAGE 205 ---


--- PAGE 206 ---


--- PAGE 207 ---


--- PAGE 208 ---


--- PAGE 209 ---
 
EXHIBIT B 

--- PAGE 210 ---


--- PAGE 211 ---


--- PAGE 212 ---


--- PAGE 213 ---


--- PAGE 214 ---


--- PAGE 215 ---


--- PAGE 216 ---


--- PAGE 217 ---


--- PAGE 218 ---


--- PAGE 219 ---


--- PAGE 220 ---


--- PAGE 221 ---


--- PAGE 222 ---


--- PAGE 223 ---


--- PAGE 224 ---


--- PAGE 225 ---


--- PAGE 226 ---


--- PAGE 227 ---


--- PAGE 228 ---


--- PAGE 229 ---


--- PAGE 230 ---


--- PAGE 231 ---


--- PAGE 232 ---


--- PAGE 233 ---


--- PAGE 234 ---


--- PAGE 235 ---


--- PAGE 236 ---


--- PAGE 237 ---


--- PAGE 238 ---


--- PAGE 239 ---


--- PAGE 240 ---


--- PAGE 241 ---


--- PAGE 242 ---


--- PAGE 243 ---


--- PAGE 244 ---


--- PAGE 245 ---


--- PAGE 246 ---


--- PAGE 247 ---


--- PAGE 248 ---


--- PAGE 249 ---


--- PAGE 250 ---


--- PAGE 251 ---


--- PAGE 252 ---


--- PAGE 253 ---


--- PAGE 254 ---


--- PAGE 255 ---


--- PAGE 256 ---


--- PAGE 257 ---


--- PAGE 258 ---


--- PAGE 259 ---


--- PAGE 260 ---


--- PAGE 261 ---


--- PAGE 262 ---


--- PAGE 263 ---


--- PAGE 264 ---


--- PAGE 265 ---


--- PAGE 266 ---


--- PAGE 267 ---


--- PAGE 268 ---


--- PAGE 269 ---


--- PAGE 270 ---


--- PAGE 271 ---


--- PAGE 272 ---


--- PAGE 273 ---


--- PAGE 274 ---


--- PAGE 275 ---


--- PAGE 276 ---


--- PAGE 277 ---


--- PAGE 278 ---


--- PAGE 279 ---


--- PAGE 280 ---


--- PAGE 281 ---


--- PAGE 282 ---


--- PAGE 283 ---


--- PAGE 284 ---


--- PAGE 285 ---


--- PAGE 286 ---


--- PAGE 287 ---


--- PAGE 288 ---


--- PAGE 289 ---


--- PAGE 290 ---


--- PAGE 291 ---


--- PAGE 292 ---


--- PAGE 293 ---


--- PAGE 294 ---


--- PAGE 295 ---


--- PAGE 296 ---


--- PAGE 297 ---


--- PAGE 298 ---


--- PAGE 299 ---


--- PAGE 300 ---


--- PAGE 301 ---


--- PAGE 302 ---


--- PAGE 303 ---


--- PAGE 304 ---


--- PAGE 305 ---


--- PAGE 306 ---


--- PAGE 307 ---


--- PAGE 308 ---


--- PAGE 309 ---


--- PAGE 310 ---


--- PAGE 311 ---


--- PAGE 312 ---


--- PAGE 313 ---


--- PAGE 314 ---


--- PAGE 315 ---


--- PAGE 316 ---


--- PAGE 317 ---


--- PAGE 318 ---


--- PAGE 319 ---


--- PAGE 320 ---


--- PAGE 321 ---


--- PAGE 322 ---


--- PAGE 323 ---


--- PAGE 324 ---


--- PAGE 325 ---


--- PAGE 326 ---


--- PAGE 327 ---


--- PAGE 328 ---


--- PAGE 329 ---


--- PAGE 330 ---


--- PAGE 331 ---


--- PAGE 332 ---


--- PAGE 333 ---


--- PAGE 334 ---


--- PAGE 335 ---


--- PAGE 336 ---


--- PAGE 337 ---


--- PAGE 338 ---


--- PAGE 339 ---


--- PAGE 340 ---


--- PAGE 341 ---


--- PAGE 342 ---


--- PAGE 343 ---


--- PAGE 344 ---


--- PAGE 345 ---


--- PAGE 346 ---


--- PAGE 347 ---


--- PAGE 348 ---


--- PAGE 349 ---


--- PAGE 350 ---


--- PAGE 351 ---


--- PAGE 352 ---


--- PAGE 353 ---


--- PAGE 354 ---


--- PAGE 355 ---


--- PAGE 356 ---


--- PAGE 357 ---


--- PAGE 358 ---


--- PAGE 359 ---


--- PAGE 360 ---


--- PAGE 361 ---


--- PAGE 362 ---


--- PAGE 363 ---


--- PAGE 364 ---


--- PAGE 365 ---


--- PAGE 366 ---


--- PAGE 367 ---


--- PAGE 368 ---


--- PAGE 369 ---


--- PAGE 370 ---


--- PAGE 371 ---


--- PAGE 372 ---


--- PAGE 373 ---
 
EXHIBIT C 

--- PAGE 374 ---
Based on USGS National Map
Topo Basemap for Weymouth
Contour Interval Equals 3 Meters
Circles indicate 500-foot and half-mile radii.
0 1,000 2,000
Feet
1:24,000
V:\Projects\H\H5059\MXDs\October 2023\HMLP_Topo_CandidateRoutes.mxd [Exported By: IDe Souza Barbosa, 11/11/2024, 8:57:14 AM]
EXHIBIT C
SITE LOCATION
Hobart II Tap Station
Hingham, Massachusetts
November 2024
H-5059
^_
¹
È
SITE LOCATION
Tighe&Bond

--- PAGE 375 ---
 
EXHIBIT D 

--- PAGE 376 ---
WV
WV
N
DESIGNED/CHECKED BY:DRAWN BY:FILE:APPROVED BY:
Hingham, MA
Hobart IISubstationHinghamMunicipalLighting Plant
DATE:PROJECT NO:
Plotted On:Nov 05, 2024-9:21am By: TJGraceLast Saved:4/3/2024Tighe & Bond:J:\H\H5059 Transmission Reliability Upgrade\Drawings_Figures\AutoCAD\Sheet\H5059-001-C-PermitSet.dwg
MARKDATEDESCRIPTIONH5059-001-C-PermitSet.dwg
PERMITDRAWINGSNOT FORCONSTRUCTION
02/13/2022H5059-001
SCALE:C-102SITE LAYOUT ANDMATERIALS PLAN
TJGTJGTJA
1" = 20'00 20'40'SCALE: 1" = 20'
HINGHAM TRANSFER STATION
GIS BUILDING
GRAVEL SURFACE WITHIN NEW STATION YARD (TYP)
CAST IN PLACE CONCRETE RETAINING WALL
DPW STORAGE CONTAINERS
EXISTING EDGE OF PAVEMENT
20' WIDE DOUBLE LEAF GATEFUTURE TRANSFORMER LOCATION
SUBSURFACE INFILTRATION SYSTEM
APPROXIMATE LIMIT OF WORK
50' WETLAND BUFFER ZONE
100' WETLAND BUFFER ZONE
EXISTING PROPERTY LINEN: 2906445.57E: 817362.92
N: 2906392.17E: 817394.38N: 2906364.17E: 817346.87
N: 2906417.66E: 817315.52
ZONING DATAOVERLAY DISTRICT(S)MIN. LOT SIZEMAX. BLDG COVERAGEMAX. BLDG HEIGHT
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES
3.4%106-0-49.70 ACRES
ZONE DISTRICTOFFICIAL & OPEN SPACE
FUTURE SWITCHGEAR LOCATION20' WIDE DOUBLE LEAF GATE
TRENCH DRAIN ALONG WALL
25'
SLOPED GRANITE CURBCHAIN LINK FENCE (TYP)
TRANSFORMER PADS
DIMENSIONAL INFOREQUIREDEXISTINGPROPOSEDNA 9.70 ACRES35'NA10%0%FRONT YARD SETBACK40'40'40'SIDE YARD SETBACKREAR YARD SETBACK40'40'40'10'62'>100'
FRONT SETBACK (40')
SIDE SETBACK (40')
SIDE SETBACK (40')
HMLP HOBART SUBSTATION
Exhibit D
Conceptual Design
Hobart II Substation

--- PAGE 377 ---
 
EXHIBIT E 

--- PAGE 378 ---
Based on USGS National Map
Topo Basemap for Weymouth, MA.
Contour Interval Equals 10-Feet.
Circles indicate 500-foot and half-mile radii.
0 1,000 2,000
Feet
V:\Projects\H\H5059\APRX\WeymouthTapStation\WeymouthTapStation_Figure123.aprx [Exported By: EMainville, 8/6/2024, 4:46 PM]
EXHIBIT E
SITE LOCATION
August 2024
H-5059
^_
¹
Tighe&Bond
1:24,000
È
SITE LOCATION
Weymouth Tap Station
Weymouth, Massachusetts

--- PAGE 379 ---
 
EXHIBIT F 

--- PAGE 380 ---
Exhibit F
Conceptual Design
Weymouth Tap Station

--- PAGE 381 ---
 
EXHIBIT G 

--- PAGE 382 ---
TOWN OF HINGHAM 
Community Planning  
 
 
 
MEMORANDUM 
 
TO:  Tom Mayo, Town Administrator 
CC:  Tom Morahan, General Manager 
FROM:  Emily Wentworth, Community Planning Director, Michael Silveira, Senior Planner, and 
Jennifer Oram, Zoning Administrator/Senior Planner 
DATE:  June 25, 2024 
RE: Board Recommendations for Proposed Substation at 0 Old Hobart Street 
______________________________________________________________________________________ 
The Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals recently reviewed proposed plans to locate a public utility 
building enclosing an electric substation and related site work on a portion of the Hingham Transfer Station 
property at 0 Old H obart Street (Assessors Map 106, Lot 4)  during a joint meeting held on June 4, 2024 . 
Though the review was informal in nature, th e meeting was advertised in a local public publication and 
abutters were noticed.  
 
Article 26 of the 2022 Annual Town Meeting  authorized the Select Board to transfer to the Hingham 
Municipal Lighting Plant (HMLP) the care, custody, management, and control of the northeast corner of the 
property for the construction and operation of the new electrical substation. Article 26 also authorized the 
Select Board to include terms and conditions deemed in the best interest of the Town  in any agreements 
or documents necessary to transfer the parcel.  
 
Section III-A, 3.10 of the Hingham Zoning By-Law allows public utility buildings and structures in the Official 
and Open Space District by a special permit administered by the Zoning Board. Based on the proposed level 
of disturbance associated with the project, Site Plan Revie w under Section I -I would also typically be 
required by the Planning Board. However, MGL c. 40A, s. 3 provides an exemption for certain public utilities 
that reads in part: 
 
Lands or structures used, or to be used by a public service corporation may be exempted in particular 
respects from the operation of a zoning ordinance or by -law if, upon petition of the corporation … 
the department of public utilities shall, after notice given pursuant to section eleven and public 
hearing in the town or city, determine the exemptions required and find that the present or proposed 
use of the land or structure is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare of the public; 
provided however, that if lands or structures used or to be used by a public service corporation are 
located in more than one municipality such lands or structures may be exempted in particular 
respects from the operation of any zoning ordinance or by-law if, upon petition of the corporation… 
the department of public utilities shall after notice to all affected communities and public hearing in 
one of said municipalities, determine the exemptions required and find that the present or proposed 
use of the land or structure is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare of the public.  
 
EXHIBIT G

--- PAGE 383 ---
Page 2 of 2 
 
While HMLP is pursuing a utility project zoning exemption through the Department of Public Utilities (DPU) 
from certain local zoning requirements, the informal review provided both Boards, as well as members of 
the public, to discuss the project and offer feedback regarding the plan. The Boards voted unanimously to 
recommend that the Select Board consider imposition of the following conditions when transferring 
custody of the parcel to HMLP: 
 
1. Pre-Construction Meeting. A preconstructi on review meeting with inspection of the erosion 
control installation and marked limits of clearing shall be required before issuance of a building 
permit. 
 
2. Limits of Work. During clearing and/or construction activities, the marked limit of work shall be 
maintained until all construction work is completed and the site is cleaned up. All vegetation 
beyond the limit of work shall be retained in an undisturbed state and no sto ckpiling of topsoil 
or storage of fill, materials, or equipment may occur within the protected area. 
 
3. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). Since the overall project will disturb more than 
one acre, the Applicant shall submit a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan to the Community 
Planning Department a minimum of three weeks prior to the start of any work. The Select Board 
may require, at the applicant’s expense, the establishment of a consultant fee account to fund 
the cost of the SWPPP review. 
 
4. Construction Schedule. At least three weeks prior to the start of any work, the Applicant shall 
provide a construction schedule and traffic management plan to the Community Planning 
Department and Department of Public Works . Said construction schedule and traffic 
management plan shall incorporate assurance that major deliveries and site work will minimize 
disruption to the transfer station operations. 
 
5. Construction Vehicles. All construction vehicles shall be parked onsite. No construction vehicles 
shall enter the premises before 7 AM on any given construction day. 
 
6. Inspections. Inspections shall be required during construction, and prior to issuance of a 
certificate of occupancy, of all elements of the project related to or affecting erosion control, 
limits of work, and the approved drainage and stormwater system installed for the project. The 
Select Board may require, at the applicant’s expense, the establishment of a consultant fee 
account to fund the cost of such inspections. 
 
7. As-Built Plan Requirement. Upon project completion an as-built plan must be submitted to the 
Building Commissioner prior to the issuance  of a certificate of occupancy. In addition to such 
other requirements as are imposed by the Building Commissioner, the as -built plan must 
demonstrate substantial conformance with the stormwater system design and performance 
standards of the approved project plans.  
 
 

--- PAGE 384 ---
 
EXHIBIT H 

--- PAGE 385 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES 
CHECKLIST FOR FILING OF ZONING EXEMPTION PETITIONS 
 
The following checklist is intended to serve as guidance for persons filing petitions for 
exemption from a municipal zoning ordinance or bylaw pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 3, or 
pursuant to §6 of Chapter 665 of the Acts of 1956.  Petitioners must complete all three parts of 
the form and submit a copy of the completed form with the petition at the time of filing. 
______________________________________________________________________________ 
PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
Petitioner name: 
 
Description of land or structures for which exemption is sought: 
 
Municipality: 
______________________________________________________________________________ 
PART 2: CONTENTS OF FILING 
 
The filing (petition and accompanying documentation) must contain, at a minimum, the 
following information: 
 
¾ A demonstration that the petitioner is a public service corporation that may seek a 
zoning exemption pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 3, with supporting documentation as 
necessary. 
 
¾ A list of the sections of the zoning ordinance or bylaw from which the petitioner 
seeks an exemption, together with a summary of each such section and an 
explanation of why exemption from that section is needed, with supporting 
documentation as necessary. 
 
Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant
Substation") at the transfer station site (0 Old Hobart Street, Parcel number 106-0-4) in Hingham to be owned and
operated by HMLP; and a new tap station (“Tap Station”) on an Eversource-owned transmission corridor (0 Broad
Street, Parcel number 20-220-1) in Weymouth that would be owned and operated by Eversource.  
Hingham and Weymouth, MA
See Section V.
See Section VII Parts B and C.
A new enclosed substation (“Hobart II
Exhibit H

--- PAGE 386 ---
Checklist for Zoning Exemption Petitions 
Page 2 
 
¾ A description of the use of land or structures which are the subject of the exemption 
request, and an explanation of the purpose of the proposed use. 
 
¾ An explanation of the public benefits to be provided by the proposed use of land or 
structures, with a supporting analysis and a description of the methods used to 
develop this analysis. 
 
¾ A description of alternatives to the proposed use of land or structures, including the 
use of existing structures or facilities. 
 
¾ An analysis of the environmental or other impacts of the use of land or structures, 
during both construction and operation.  This analysis could include, without 
limitation, impacts on land use at or near the site, on wetlands or water resources at 
or near the site, visual and noise considerations, traffic and access considerations, 
public safety considerations, air pollutant emissions, or the use of hazardous 
substances. 
 
¾ A list of all permits required for the proposed use of land or structures prior to 
construction, during construction and during operation. 
 
NOTE: All information provided in the filing (including the petitioner’s analysis of the need 
for each exemption sought) must be adopted by witnesses who will be able to testify and 
respond to questions at evidentiary hearings.  The petitioner should be prepared to identify 
which witness will adopt which part of the filing no later than three weeks after the filing date. 
 
PART 3: ATTACHMENTS 
 
The following documents must be submitted with the petition: 
 
¾ An attested copy of the municipality’s complete zoning ordinance or bylaw, as in effect 
at the date of filing. 
 
¾ Copies of any zoning decisions or related municipal actions taken with respect to the 
proposed use of land or structures. 
See Section II.
See Section VI Part B.
See Section VI Part C.
See Section VI Parts D and E.
See Section IX.
See Exhibit A for Hingham's Zoning By-law and Exhibit B for
Weymouth's Zoning Ordinance
See Exhibit G for Recommendations from the Hingham Planning
Board and Zoning Board of Appeals

--- PAGE 387 ---
Checklist for Zoning Exemption Petitions 
Page 3 
 
 
¾ A United States Geological Survey map (1:24,000 or 1:25,000 scale and in color) of 
the area, showing the locus of the land or structures. 
 
¾ A diagram of the site of the proposed use, showing property boundaries, existing and 
proposed structures, and other use areas (e.g., roadway, parking, and materials 
storage/transfer areas) at the site.   
 
¾ Either: (1) a copy of the Environmental Notification Form (“ENF”) for the project and 
the Certificate of the Secretary of Environmental Affairs on such ENF; or (2) an 
affidavit from the petitioner stating that the proposed use does not require the filing of 
an ENF.  If an Environmental Impact Report (“EIR”) is required, and has been 
submitted to the MEPA Office at the time of filing, a copy of the EIR(s) and any 
related Certificates also should be submitted with the petition. 
 
¾ Draft MEPA Section 61 findings relating to the proposed use of land or structures, if an 
EIR is required for the proposed use. 
 
¾ A draft hearing notice (hard copy and electronic form in Microsoft Word). 
 
¾ Filing fee: A check for $100.00, made payable to Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 
 
 All of the information requested above has been included in the Zoning Exemption 
Filing and attachments submitted with this form. 
 
 
 
    __________ ______________________ ______________ 
    S i g n a t u r e      D a t e  
 
See Exhibit C for a USGS Locus Map for the Hobart II Substation and Exhibit E for a USGS Locus
Map for the Weymouth Tap Station
See Exhibit D for the layout of the Hobart II Substation and Exhibit F for the layout of the Weymouth
Tap Station
N/A See Exhibit I MEPA Statement
N/A See Exhibit I MEPA Statement
See Exhibit J
Provided under separate cover.
/s/ Robert D. Shapiro
11/13/2024

--- PAGE 388 ---
 
EXHIBIT I 

--- PAGE 389 ---
 
 
53 Southampton Road     •     Westfield, MA 01085-5308     •     Tel 413.562.1600 
www.tighebond.com 
Exhibit I 
H5059-001 
November 11, 2024 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts  
Department of Public Utilities 
Electric Power Division 
1 South Station, 3rd Floor 
Boston, MA 02110  
Re:  Joint Petition of Hingham Municipal Lighting P lant and NSTAR Electric 
Company d/b/a Eversource Energy Pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 3 for Individual 
and Comprehensive Exemptions from the Zoning By-law  of the Town of 
Hingham and the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Wey mouth 
 D.P.U. 24-135   
Affidavit of Tracy J. Adamski Regarding Review Unde r the Massachusetts 
Environmental Policy Act 
I, Tracy J. Adamski, do hereby state and depose as follows: 
1. I am an AICP-Certified Planner with over 29 years o f experience and a Vice President 
in the Environmental Business Line at Tighe & Bond,  Inc. with a business address of 
53 Southampton Road Westfield, Massachusetts 10185. 
2. I am testifying on behalf of Hingham Municipal Ligh ting Plant (“HMLP”) in the above-
captioned proceeding. 
3. As an AICP-Certified Planner and a Vice President in the Environmental Business Line, 
I have analyzed the environmental impacts of HMLP’s proposed modifications and the 
necessary environmental permitting at the state and local levels. 
4. I have reviewed the thresholds found in 301 CMR 11. 03 that identify categories of 
projects for which review under the Massachusetts E nvironmental Policy Act, G.L. c. 
30, §§ 61-62H, is required. I have determined that the Project as currently proposed 
will not exceed any of the review thresholds therein and, accordingly, the Project does 
not require the filing of an Environmental Notifica tion Form with the Secretary of the 
Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. 
Signed below under the pains and penalties of perjury this 11th day of November 2024. 
Tracy J. Adamski, AICP  
Vice President 
 
Tracy J. Adamski, AICP 


--- PAGE 390 ---
 
EXHIBIT J 

--- PAGE 391 ---
 
1 
 
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
ENERGY FACILITIES SITING BOARD 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES 
NOTICE OF ADJUDICATION AND PUBLIC COMMENT HEARINGS 
 
EFSB 24-01/D.P .U. 24-135 – Hingham Municipal Ligh+ng Plant Reliability Project  
 
Project Summary and Public Comment Hearing Overview – Hingham Municipal Lighng Plant 
(“HMLP”) is proposing to construct, operate, and maintain (1) an approximately 3.2-mile 
underground transmission line in the Towns of Weymouth and Hingham (“New Line”); and (2) 
an enclosed substaon located at the transfer staon site at Old Hobart Street in the Town of 
Hingham (“New Substaon”).  HMLP also seeks approval of a proposed open-air switching 
staon or tap staon in Weymouth (“New Tap Staon”), which would be constructed, owned, 
and operated by NSTAR Electric Company d/b/a Eversource Energy (“Eversource”) within an 
exisng transmission corridor.  (The proposed New Line, New Substaon and New Tap Staon 
are referred to collecvely as the “Project”.)  A descripon and map of the Project are provided 
below. 
 
The Si+ng Board will conduct two public comment hearings with both in person and remote 
par+cipa+on op+ons: 
[Date and locaon of Hingham public hearing/Date and locaon of Weymouth public hearing] 
Remote a8endees: join by clicking (or entering) this link  [insert link] from a computer, tablet, 
or smart device. For audio only parcipaon, a9ende es can dial in at [insert phone number] 
(not a toll-free number) and then enter the [insert Webinar ID #] 
 
To provide oral comments during the public comment hearings (in person or on Zoom), please 
send an email to Yonathan.Mengesha@mass.gov  with your name, email address, mailing 
address, and specify which hearing locaon, by [insert date]. To provide comments by 
telephone, please leave a voicemail message referencing “EFSB 24-01” at (617) [insert number] 
with your name, telephone number, mailing address, and specify which hearing date, by [insert 
date]. Pre-registered commenters will speak ﬁrst, and other commenters aEerwards. The Sing 
Board also invites wri9en comments on the Project. Wri9en comments will be most useful to 
the Sing Board if submi9ed by [insert date]. 
 
Exhibit J

--- PAGE 392 ---
 
2 
 
 
Important Dates:  
Public Comment Hearings                                                                      [Insert dates] 
Deadline to File Wri9en Comments                                                     [Insert date] 
Deadline to ﬁle for intervenon/limited parcipant status             [Insert date] 
 
Public Comment Hearings: 
You are invited to either or both public comment hearings to learn more about the Project and 
provide comments on the proposed Project. To build the Project, HMLP needs approval from 
the Energy Facilies Sing Board (“Sing Board”), part of Massachuse9s state government.  
HMLP will present an overview of the Project.  Public oﬃcials and members of the public will 
have an opportunity to ask quesons and make comments about the proposed Project.  The 
public comment hearings will be transcribed by a court reporter.  Recordings of the public 
comment hearings will be available on the Sing Board’s YouTube channel aEer the hearings. 
Public Review of the Company’s Pe++on: 
A detailed descripon of the Project is electronically available via the Sing Board’s webpage for 
the Project: [insert link]. In addion, links to HMLP’s peons, a9achments, and analysis are on 
the webpage, and have been provided to the municipalies of Hingham and Weymouth.  HMLP 
also maintains a webpage for the Project: [insert link]  
Hard copies of HMLP’s peons, including all a9achments, are available for public inspecon at 
the following locaons:  
Boston:  
• Energy Facilies Sing Board, One South Staon, 3rd ﬂoor, Boston, MA 02110  
Hingham: 
• Hingham Town Clerk, Hingham Town Hall, 210 Central Street, Hingham, MA 02043 
 
• Hingham Public Library, 66 Leavi9 Street, Hingham, MA 02043 
Weymouth: 
• Weymouth Town Clerk, Weymouth Town Hall, 75 Middle Street, Weymouth, MA 02189 
 
• TuEs Library, 46 Broad Street, Weymouth, MA 02188 
 

--- PAGE 393 ---
 
3 
 
• Fogg Library, 1 Columbian Street, South Weymouth, MA  02190 
 
Decision on the Project Proposal: 
The two peons ﬁled by HMLP and Eversource have been consolidated for hearing before the 
Sing Board under docket number EFSB 24-01/D.P .U. 24-135.  The public comment hearing 
marks the beginning of an oﬃcial, state-level decision-making process focused on whether the 
Project should be approved.  The Sing Board will make the decision based on the following 
laws:  
(1) Under G.L. (Massachuse9s General Law) c.(chapte r) 164, § (secon) 69J, the Sing Board will 
review the HMLP’s proposed Project to determine whether the Project will provide a reliable 
energy supply with a minimum impact on the environment at the lowest possible cost.  
(2) Under G.L. c. 40A, § 3, the Sing Board will determine (i) whether exempons from the 
zoning enactments of Hingham and Weymouth are required, and (ii) whether the proposed 
Project is necessary, serves the public convenience, and is consistent with the public interest. 
 
Interven+on and Par+cipa+on: 
Persons or groups who wish to be involved in the Sing Board proceeding, beyond providing 
comments at the public comment hearing or submiTng wri9en comments, may seek either to 
intervene as a party or to parcipate as a limited parcipant. A peon to intervene or 
parcipate must also be ﬁled no later than [insert date], and follow the instrucons provided 
below. 
“Intervenor" or “Party” Status: An intervenor can parcipate fully in the evidenary phase of 
the proceeding, including the right to parcipate in evidenary hearings, ﬁle a brief and present 
comments to the Sing Board on the Tentave Decision, and to appeal a Final Decision. 
“Limited Parcipant” Status: A limited parcipant receives documents during the proceeding 
and may ﬁle a brief and present comments regarding the Tentave Decision to the Sing Board.  
Any person seeking intervenor or limited parcipant status in this proceeding must ﬁle a 
peon to intervene or parcipate no later than [insert date]. A peon to intervene must 
demonstrate that the peoner may be substanally and speciﬁcally aﬀected by this 
proceeding. See below for ﬁling instrucons. For more informaon on the Sing Board’s 
procedural rules, please see the following link: h9ps://www.mass.gov/doc/980-cmr-
105/download .  
 

--- PAGE 394 ---
 
4 
 
Filing Instruc+ons: 
Wri9en comments on the Project, or a peon to intervene or parcipate as a limited 
parcipant in this proceeding, must be ﬁled in two places:   
First, the comments or peon must be sent to the Sing Board by email - to 
dpu.eﬁling@mass.gov  - AND to [insert Presiding Oﬃcer]@mass.gov - no later than the close of 
business on [insert date]. The text of the e-mail must specify: (1) the docket number of the 
proceeding (EFSB 24-01/D.P .U. 24-135); (2) the name of the person or enty submiTng the 
ﬁling; and (3) a brief descripon of the document. The email should also include the name, tle, 
and telephone number of a person to contact in the event of quesons about the ﬁling. 
Second, the comments or peon must be sent by email to counsel for HMLP , Robert D. 
Shapiro, Esq., Duncan & Allen at RDS@duncanallen.com  and to counsel for Eversource, David S. 
Rosenzweig, Esq., Keegan Werlin LLP at drosen@keeganwerlin.com . 
 
Accommoda+on Requests:  
Reasonable accommodaons for people with disabilies (e.g., Braille, large print, electronic 
ﬁles, audio format) are available upon request. Include a complete descripon of the 
accommodaon you will need and a way we can contact you if we need more informaon. 
Please provide as much advance noce as possible. Last minute requests will be accepted, but 
we may be unable to fulﬁll the request. Please contact the Department’s ADA coordinator at 
melixza.esenyie2@mass.gov . 
Language interpretaon services are available upon request. Include in your request the 
language required and a way to contact you if we need more informaon. Requests may be 
made no later than [insert date].  It may not be possible to accommodate last-minute requests. 
Contact the Presiding Oﬃcer to make a request (contact informaon below). 
 
Non-discrimina+on No+ce : 
The EFSB does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, naonal origin, disability, age, sex, 
income, ethnicity, class, handicap, religious creed or belief, gender identy, sexual orientaon, 
genec informaon, English language proﬁciency or ancestry in administraon of its programs 
or acvies. See the EFSB’s Non-Discriminaon Noce at: 
h9ps://www.mass.gov/infodetails/efsb-non-discriminaon-noce .  
 

--- PAGE 395 ---
 
5 
 
Contact : 
For further informaon about the proceeding, please contact the Presiding Oﬃcer at the 
address or telephone number below:  
 
[insert name], Presiding Oﬃcer 
Energy Facilies Sing Board 
One South Staon 
Boston, MA 02110 
[insert name]@mass.gov  
(617) [insert tel. no.] 
 
For periodic updates please visit the Sing Board’s webpage for this proceeding found at: [insert 
EFSB webpage for Project]. 
 
Project Descrip+on: 
HMLP’s Project is designed to ensure the reliable electric service to approximately 10,500 
metered HMLP customers, which include approximately 24,000 residents, as well as a number 
of medical facilies, schools, municipal oﬃces and public safety buildings within the Town of 
Hingham. 
The Town of Hingham currently is fed via two overhead 115 kV transmission lines covering a 
distance of approximately 3.3 miles which interconnect to HMLP’s exisng Hobart Substaon.  
The exisng transmission lines are supported by both wood and metal structures, including 22 
double-circuit tower or DCTs, where the two lines share the same single pole.  HMLP indicates 
that this conﬁguraon is suscepble to conngency events which can result in simultaneous loss 
of service from both transmission lines which, in turn, could cause an extended outage for the 
enre Town of Hingham.   
HMLP’s proposed Project would establish a new, independent transmission feed to Hingham.  
The New Line, which would be constructed, owned and operated by HMLP , would (1) 
interconnect to a New Tap Staon in Weymouth, which would be constructed, owned, and 
operated by Eversource; (2) travel underground along public ways in Weymouth and Hingham; 
and (3) terminate at a New Substaon that will be constructed, owned and operated by HMLP 
at the transfer staon site in Hingham.    

--- PAGE 396 ---
 
6 
 
Descrip+on of New Line Routes, New Substa+on and New Tap Sta+on: 
The New Line: 
The Preferred Route for the Project, also referred to as the Broad Street Route, is an 
approximately 3.2-mile underground route primarily along public ways, that exits the New 
Substaon site at the Hingham transfer staon and runs west on Hobart Street, turns south on 
French Street, then turns west on High Street and connues west into Weymouth on High 
Street which becomes Broad at Commercial Street.  Broad Street is then followed for 
approximately 9,300 feet unl ending at the New Tap Staon Site located adjacent to the 
Eversource ROW in Weymouth. 
The Noced Alternave Route, also known as the Lake Street Route, is an approximately 3.7-
mile underground route that exits the proposed New Substaon in Hingham and runs west on 
Hobart Street, then turns south on French Street and turns west on High Street.  The Noced 
Alternave Route then connues west into Weymouth connuing on High Street which 
becomes Broad Street.  This route then turns south down Water Street, turning north on 
Pleasant Street, and travels west on Lake Street, and northwest on Essex Street, which 
transions to Spring Street.  The route turns west onto Broad Street and connues west on 
Broad Street to the New Tap Staon site adjacent to the Eversource ROW in Weymouth.   
HMLP is also presenng a Variaon of its Noced Alternave Route which follows the same 
route out of the New Substaon in Hingham to Broad Street in Weymouth.  Then, instead of 
turning south down Water Street, the Variaon follows Broad Street west and turns south on 
Shawmut Street and turns southwest onto Lake Street where it connues to follow the Noced 
Alternave Route to the New Tap Staon site in Weymouth.  
The New Substaon (Hingham): 
The New Substaon will be located on an approximately 24,000 square feet (“sf”) undeveloped 
area in the northeastern corner of the 9.7-acre Town of Hingham Transfer Staon oﬀ Old Hobart 
Street and in close proximity to HMLP’s exisng Hobart Substaon.  Structures, equipment, and 
site improvements will include a new Gas Insulated Switchgear (“GIS”) substaon, circuit 
breakers, bus work, protecon and communicaons equipment, fencing and a retaining wall.  
Although not needed for capacity purposes at this me, the New Substaon footprint is large 
enough to accommodate the addion of a new transformer and new switch gear to address 
peak load growth associated with electriﬁcaon necessary to meet the Town of Hingham’s and 
Commonwealth’s climate goals 
The New Tap Staon (Weymouth): 
The New Tap Staon, an open-air substaon including air-insulated switchgear, an electrical 
control enclosure, four 85-foot shielding masts, three electric overhead-to-underground 
transion structures, two 210-foot underground transmission interconnecons between the 

--- PAGE 397 ---
 
7 
 
exisng lines and the New Tap Staon, one tangent pole, fencing and an addional parking area 
with new vehicular access drive, will be located on an approximately 2.5 acre poron of a 11.6-
acre Eversource owned parcel within an exisng transmission corridor on Broad Street in 
Weymouth. 
A map showing the Preferred Route, the Noce Alternave Route (including a Variaon on the 
Noced Alternave Route), the New Substaon and the New Tap Staon is set out below: 
  
